The modernist human being is a disgraced one.
Not to mention that he is empty within.
We are unaware of all the different types of freedom that human history has produced.
We only know the political freedom that Western States have produced for us.
This is because the history of freedom, which we don't practice today
but mankind practiced in many forms before the 19th century,
is dead.
It was killed by Western freedom.
Do you view the Islamic 'Futuh' as occupations?
Translated by
Turki Al-Hessan تركي الحصان
turki.alhessan@gmail.com
Hello, this is Fnjan Podcast from thmanyah,
and I'm Abdul Rahman Abu Maleh.
I remember a saying that goes like this:
"That everything around us that we can call life is made by people like us."
They are not smarter than us at all.
I believe in this idea.
However, the problem this episode wants to solve in one way or another
is that all this life and its concepts are Western products.
The freedom we are familiar with has a Western definition.
What is a human, and why does he exist?
The definition is Western.
The same is true for work, retirement, equality, and countless other examples.
My guest has a mega project.
His goal is to destabilize the dominant discourse of Islamic studies in the West.
Because he thinks
that the West looked at us and understood us
with an orientalist lens
that resulted in a disaster.
He says: I studied European history to understand Islamic history.
And Islamic history, as we know it today, is not our history.
Then what is Islamic history?
How Islamic Shari‘a originated and developed
from the beginning of the Rightly Guided Caliphate,
and through Islamic States,
until the emergence of the modern state?
Once you open the door to the modern state and modernity,
it opens doors and raises questions that are philosophical, moral, and fundamental.
These questions, discussions, and criticisms
is what my guest aspires to be presented
in the corridors of Arab and Western universities and academies
My guest is Dr. Wael Hallaq
Professor in the Humanities at Columbia University, Department of Middle Eastern Studies,
His PhD thesis was titled "Was the Gate of Ijtihad Closed?"
Perplexing questions have led him to this question
which made him write his PhD thesis.
This episode is packed full of perplexing questions,
and answers that lead to more questions.
Before we begin
this episode, like many episodes of Fnjan Podcast,
is full of materials and references related to topics raised by a guest in the course of the conversation
or important information from the research and preparation journey.
We collected it for you in the form of an email.
If you are interested, the link to subscribe to the Fnjan newsletter is below
in the description box of this episode.
Now, let's start.
How long do you anticipate the interview will last?
(I mean, there is no specific time in my mind.)
What is the optimal duration?
The ideal duration is when you deliver your idea perfectly. Really.
Some episodes take an hour, and that was enough.
Others take up to 4 hours.
- And they are very successful.
- (Yes, they are.)
I was talking to one of your guests about it.
One episode was more than three hours long, but it had a few million viewers.
- That's true.
An episode was a little over three hours long, and it was viewed fifty million times.
Masha Allah
- It was about relationships.
- Yes, that one.
You could say that that episode touched a lot of people on a personal level.
But there are strange episodes, and I don't know the numbers exactly.
I mean, I don't know how it became popular.
There was that episode with George Saliba.
He is a colleague of mine.
It targeted the elites, presumably.
That episode has reached seven million now.
Yes, I have noticed that.
It's hard to anticipate acceptance.
(It's hard to know that beforehand.)
Yes, I can't.
It's like writing a book.
When you write a book, it could be received normally
or it could be very famous.
Although they are from the same author, he wouldn't know.
It applies to many things, such as books and films.
True.
It's like a chemical mixture,
and it's hard to predict it's precise compounds.
The more you want to spread a subject, the less it does.
But if you made a subject and focused on it,
Yes, that's true.
Is it possible to take breaks?
(Any time.)
And will you cut it?
Yes, we will cut it and rework it.
Will you add something?
(Not at all.)
- So, the viewer will not know?
- (No, they don't.)
Okay.
- Whenever it suits you
- Excellent.
But there is an issue
I want to learn more about it from you.
Do you expect people to understand Wael Hallaq's project?
Because I asked about that, and I'm not sure.
Of course, it depends on the type of book or research.
Or maybe the Wael Hallaq project as a whole.
If we want to talk about the books,
I imagine there is a point of difference and a big disparity between the responses of the audience.
Especially the book 'The Impossible State'.
It created quite a stir.
I can say that there are certain elites who understood the book accurately and excellently.
Even some Muslims in America
managed to to dive in the book's meanings
and they understood that book accurately.
And sometimes I feel like I wish I had deputed them to speak on my behalf.
However, there were other instances where the book was abused.
There were two kinds of abuse.
Abuse with good intention.
This is because they didn't understand the book.
Or they don't have the necessary background to understand the book.
This is normal, and you can't blame anyone for that.
But there is a very small elite that has attacked the book with an impure intention.
They want to destroy it and its project.
They even want to destroy the integrity of the person who wrote the book.
Arabs or Westerners?
No, All of them are Arabs.
Westerners and non-Arabs have more moderate reactions than some Arabs.
The Impossible State has caused a stir for a reason.
It's because of the intellectual battles that took place around the book.
I'm not the only party in defense or in the interpretation of the book.
There are many people who defend the book.
Because they believe in an overview of the problems we face today that is similar to mine.
Excellent.
I will try my best to make this episode reach as many people as possible.
I think that there are many concepts that you bring up
and if people were to understand it, it could reflect on their lives in general.
Not necessarily nationwide
But on the personal and intellectual scope of any human
- We will try as much as we can.
- Of course.
I hope.
I want to go back to the point
where you said at the start of your research
that you tried to research European history to understand Islamic history.
- (True.)
- And you said:
Islamic history, as we know it today, is not our history.
I would like to learn about the things that we don't know about our Islamic history.
Writing history today is completely different from writing history before the 19th century.
History as we know it today is born of 19th-century European practices.
Even in Europe, it wasn't too long before the 19th century.
Of course, it's like a mathematical equation
that doesn't need to be proved.
If we are starting from any discourse
that was written in the present, which means the 19th and 20th century,
this means that we are reading history
using given facts, perspectives, feelings, and ways of thinking from these two centuries.
Add to that,
even if there was no colonization or anything else
Even if we were just Muslims
living without a colonial history
that happened to us in the last two hundred years.
Okay.
Now you must include the colonialism.
European colonialism is unique in the human experience.
Few people understand that.
Of course, Muslims occupied many states.
It was called Al-Futuh.
They weren't given a name that was equivalent to the word coloniality, colony, or colonialism.
It was named Futuh.
It's true that it was just a word.
However, it has deep implications and concepts.
Because the Islamic Fatah (plural Futuh), for example,
is of a certain quality that is completely different
from European occupations, settlements, and colonizations in the 19th century
and most of them happened in the 19th century.
Even when England entered India,
it couldn't subjugate it to its will.
It couldn't remake India into what it thought was the real image of civilization.
This lasted until the 19th century.
This was from the beginning, but in the middle of the 19th century
India completely collapsed under the feet of the British Empire.
Do you view the Islamic Futuh as occupations?
Of course, Fatah is an occupation of land.
By the way, 'occupation' is a modern word.
Futuh is an old word.
As is the case with the book Futuh al-Buldan by al-Baladhuri.
Futuh is always used in all Islamic sources.
But the word occupation
Another point, Abu Omar, that we should always keep in mind.
And I am addressing this to the young people.
Language is the key to understanding.
And understanding is the key to acting and viewing life.
If you don't pay close attention to the language, you will be lost.
Today, when we use the word occupation, for example,
we think it is similar to other words like Futuh or colonialism.
It's not.
We employ occupation, such as the Israeli occupation.
Why do we call it the Israeli occupation?
Because occupation means removing the Palestinians and occupying their land.
They take their heritage, steal their land,
destroy their homes, and expel them.
This is what an occupation is.
They take your place.
This is a kind of occupation.
This is a heinous kind of occupation
because it excludes indigenous citizens from their land.
Like what happened in America, for example.
They excluded all the so-called American Indians from their land
and killed, scattered, and exterminated them, correct?
There were 90 million American Indian citizens
killed in European occupations.
The Israeli occupation is trying to practice so-called genocide
against Palestinians in a slow and systematic way.
This is a kind of occupation.
But there are other kinds of occupations that keep citizens,
for example, Great Britain in India.
Because they can't banish or kill all Indians.
What do they do then?
In Australia, America, and Israel
they are trying to destroy the indigenous population.
It is possible because their numbers are small.
But they couldn't in India, of course, because the Indians were even more numerous than all Europeans.
Correct?
What did they do?
If I can't kill you and erase you from the earth because I want to take your land,
I will transform you to be like me.
Because when you think like me,
you are a part of me, and I can do whatever I want to you.
Thus, I have the political authority,
and you are my subjects
who are obedient
and accept all the principles, political and social outlooks, and moral values of the ruler.
So they became part of the population.
But power, command, and control are in the hands of the colonists.
Great Britain ruled India effectively for about 150 years
and for about 250 years before that, it wasn't as successful.
They succeeded in the end.
However, through this experience of 450 years,
not a single Indian had sat in the English Parliament in London.
Correct?
But the Indians, even today, if you have noticed when you talk with them,
let us call them our Indian brothers, regardless of their religions,
many are influenced by and imbued with English civilization and mentality.
I mean, some of them reached the point of absurdity in their imitation of the English.
It causes some laughter, at least for me.
They don't know that they have been colonized.
This is modern colonialism.
This is when the subjectivity of the colonized crystallizes into the colonizer's subjectivity.
How about the new British Prime Minister?
These are the effects of the numerous subsequent effects of colonization.
England today has millions of Indians.
This is something the British couldn't control.
And since there are a lot of Indians in England now,
You can see that some are very successful and wealthy
and they can attain what is called political power.
Therefore, one of them made it successfully.
Why is that?
Because he has exploited these divisions in the rock
and he was able to get this position.
This is not because the British love Democracy
or they're ready to accept all the results of Democracy.
This is a major misconception.
Why?
Because Democracy allows for everything as long as it's democratic,
and this is dictatorship.
Because Western democracy
is a matter of Western political freedom.
And this is another topic.
If you want, we can discuss it in some detail later.
(Okay.)
Because it means that you have political freedom
and this freedom has a certain meaning and is of a certain type.
We are unaware of all the different types of freedom that human history has produced.
We only know the political freedom that Western States have produced for us.
I could ask you a question:
Other than the principle of freedom of Western democracy and liberalism,
Could you sufficiently explain an example of another type of freedom?
I always ask this question to my students.
No one has been able to answer it.
No one?
Why? This is because the history of freedom, which we don't practice today
but mankind practiced in many forms before the 19th century,
is dead.
It was killed by Western freedom.
We only know one type of freedom.
And this one type is a political type but is essentially economical.
It's not just political.
When you go to vote in the elections,
although it appears that way, it isn't a purely political act.
It's an economical act as well.
I would like to go back to the topics of occupation and definitions.
You were saying that the British in India
didn't expel them but asked them to be like the British.
(Correct.)
Isn't this the same as what happened in Futuh?
All the nations that joined the Islamic State
became Arabic and Islamic.
They did change their identity, language, and religion.
Isn't that the same thing?
No, it isn't. There is a big difference.
First of all, and very few people know this,
even in the fourth and fifth centuries AH
Muslims were a minority in their State.
- Were you aware of this before now?
- No.
- Muslims were the minority back then?
- Yes.
They were the minority, but they were the rulers.
And their empire, assuming it's correct to call it that
You noticed that I said their empire, but this is the wrong usage.
Empire was not a term they used to describe their rule.
They had a caliphate, or sultanate.
I used the term empire because I'm still influenced by modern discourse.
Aren't these different terms and nothing more?
No, each one has its own meaning.
The meaning determines the quantity and the quality, and the quality is very important
Let's start with it.
The first fact about Islamic history,
and it started from the beginning
Since the era of Omar Ibn Al-Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him
What did he say?
He said: when you conquer a state,
leave them be.
"You have your religion, and I have my religion." (The Holy Quran, 109:6)
This was very clear.
He did not even think about it because it was natural to him.
This is how their mentality worked from the beginning.
And the Holy Quran insisted on it.
Leave them to worship what they want
and give them their religious freedoms.
Jews and Christians could get married, trade, and pray, almost doing whatever they wanted.
According to their beliefs and religions.
However, when you leave your home and are in a public space or on a shared street
that have Muslims, Jews, Christians and others,
You respect the law or the law of society in general,
which is Islamic law, or Shari‘a.
So you aren't allowed to sell alcohol.
And you should not use interest when dealing with Muslims.
The usury.
The forbidden and haram things
It is mainly alcohol and forbidden meat.
And alcohol was always one of the big problems.
Even in actual history.
Not just in principles and jurisprudence.
There were actually problems.
Because alcohol was common even among the Arabs.
It was causing a lot of problems.
These are a few problems we need to avoid.
They insisted on punishing anyone who committed these heinous acts.
And they taught their children.
And this is the most important thing.
Another essential premise, and this one is of great importance,
the Jews, Christians and other minorities
and in India later on,
this is when the Mughal state occupied India,
and they stepped into the embrace of Islamic society or "Islamic Empire,"
they have accepted followers of Hindus, Buddhists, Jains, and others.
There were 500–600 minorities in India.
All of them came under Islamic rule.
The Shari‘a that was applied to Jews, Christians, and Zoroastrians
now extends to almost all other non-Muslims.
However, and this is a crucial point,
the Jews, Christians and others
they have raised and cared for their children
on the values of
The Islamic?
No, it's based on the values of their religion.
The Jews continued to be Jews.
Not only that, but the Muslims insisted that everyone keep their religion.
If you want to be a Jew, then do whatever you want to do as a Jew, and it's your right.
They also say: You're from Ahl al-Dhimmah. But what does Dhimmah mean?
Dhimmah means to be our responsibility.
Muslims owe protection to Ahl al-Dhimmah since they paid their Jizya.
They protect you on your religious conditions.
The conditions are the laws of the book.
If the book is Jewish or Christian, the laws of the book are always politically sacred.
There is full respect for these minorities.
Therefore, the Jewish identity and the Christian identity
continued to have the same identity.
Of course, as times change, many things change anyway.
But these doctrines
And Jewish practices, for example,
I use Judaism as an example,
it lasted over the centuries.
This lasted until the establishment of the State of Israel.
When it's all over, of course.
The Jews left the Islamic states and went to Israel.
And the modern state entered and dismantled Jewish and Islamic society.
But this is a different story.
However, what I'm trying to say
is that the minorities lasted in Islam.
I'm not referring to numerical minorities here
but religious minorities in the sense that they are not the rulers.
Such as Christianity and Judaism.
They were able to continue to generate themselves throughout the ages.
On their own terms and not on the conditions of the colonizer.
Just look at the level of tolerance.
and how much openness they have.
I know Canada and have lived there for 24 years, and I'm very familiar with what they call multiculturalism.
The whole thing is a joke.
When you study Islamic history,
and you see how the Muslims treated their minorities,
and of course, we are only discussing how the colonizer alters subjectivity.
But we could discuss it from other angles.
For example, Jews and Christians in Islamic history up until the 20th century
if look at Egypt and similar places, you have Christian and Jewish minorities
and they are always at the forefront.
They were doctors, lawyers, merchants, and members of the rich class.
They had many privileges.
And sometimes they had more privileges than Muslims in an unfair way.
Honestly, sometimes they even dominate.
Yeah.
The same is happening now in Indonesia.
Indonesia is repeating the same experience.
3% of Indonesians are Chinese.
They hold 70% of Indonesia's natural resources and funds.
3% of the population
holds 70% of the wealth of the people and the state.
How do you read this tolerance in Islamic rule with non-Muslims
while also in the same Islamic history, you find hostility that is happening a lot
inside the Muslims and between them
with the different sects, or the one who has different ideas?
History has a lot of examples of this.
Of course, there were such things.
For instance, I'll discuss the Crusader period.
There was a lot of assault on Christians
in what we call Syria today, primarily in Aleppo and Damascus.
And some other villages
that surrounded the castles back in the day.
In the past, the castle had villages around it.
These have always been subject to violence.
So, of course there was, but why?
There was a big suspicion that the Christians in Damascus were helping the Crusaders.
When there is persecution against a Christian or a Jew in Islamic history,
it wasn't just natural puritanism that was indoctrinated into the Islamic mentality.
It wasn't like that but there were always special circumstances
which used to lead the ruler or the people
to tighten the belt on these minorities.
The Crusader period was undoubtedly a problem for Christians in Syria.
I wasn't there, and I can't decide whether they were spies or not.
This is normal.
For example, if you look at America during World War II and what they did,
they put all the Japanese in the concentration camps, as they call them.
In fenced camps.
The Japanese, who were even born in America generations ago,
and they were not Japanese other than in appearance.
They put them all in these camps.
But why? Because they doubted that they could help Japan.
This is normal
Despite its ugliness, this reaction could be
one of the things in life that are ugly and had to happen.
As they say: When we are born,
in the moment of childbirth
in a very beautiful moment
but we are born in blood.
Correct?
This is part of what it means to fight an enemy that has invaded your state
and occupied your land, killed your people, and killed others.
I mean, the Crusaders didn't only kill the Muslims
but they killed the Christians in Jerusalem as well.
And in Constantine, before it was Istanbul,
they invaded it and killed the Christian Byzantines
because they weren't like them
They wanted to purify them
and save their souls
and help them reach salvation
so they killed them.
Okay, I want to go back to Shari‘a.
In your book "Sharī'a"
you said: in the first three centuries,
the new religion has been able to produce a sophisticated legislative system.
( True.)
How was this legislative system formed since its inception in the era of the Prophet (peace and blessings of Allah be upon him)?
If I may, let me start with an introduction.
Every historical vision is a discourse.
I mean, when I say that Islamic history has developed and so on, this is a discourse.
This discourse becomes part of my intellectual components and, by extension, part of my personal components.
Therefore, the discourse makes me who I am.
Here, at least, I will only talk about two discourses.
A discourse about the period of the emergence of Shari‘a
to see the difference between them.
Later, perhaps we will discuss the issues of Orientalism.
It will be an introduction to this subsequent discussion.
There is an Orientalist discourse that says
that the Shari‘a was formed
after the Muslims invaded, conquered, and colonized other countries.
And they came from Arabian Peninsula.
A group of Bedouins that lacked everything.
They have nothing—no civilization or even thinking.
All the orientalist views of the Hijaz people
and even the whole southern section of the Peninsula
the birthplace of Islam,
or the middle south of it
they see them as barbaric tribal people.
And what do they mean by tribal? This is another point we can study later.
For them, tribal means against all the civilized values of today.
Those tribals have nothing
so they sent their violence-loving tribes
to occupy the north, east, and west.
And in the end, after they occupied these lands,
they thought it was impossible to rule these lands since we have nothing.
Let's plunder other nations wealth.
Not only their money and land, but their cultural wealth as well.
Including their laws.
The Muslims came,
and since they have nothing,
Those Arab savages
This is how the Orientalist view goes.
I'm summarizing it for you.
You may have to pay me for this
because I'm summarizing about 200 books for you.
The discourse
of those 200 books
can be summarized and boiled down to this view.
I've written a lot about it, by the way.
These aren't Impressions.
It took me six years to study it.
A large part of my writings
is a response to the orientalists from this point.
The point at which Shari‘a was established
They say they took the Roman law.
And Byzantine law.
And the law before it, which is the Greek law.
And the Jewish Law.
All of this is rather stolen, even though they don't say it that way.
They say that it was "borrowed."
Loaned?
Or they call it "debt".
For example, How do they say it in English?
And this is the short version for the youth who are interested in these studies.
They either call it "borrowings",
this is like when you borrow something
or they call it "debt".
Either borrowing or debt.
When they say: It is a debt, It means: Look at what they took from us.
While with "borrowing", it means they took it from us.
In the first one, there is a kind of guarantee that you must pay.
In the second, they don't mind that it was taken from them.
This is the Orientalist view.
Is this the extremist view?
No, this is the prevailing Orientalist view.
And I say that even after all the writings that have been written against it
by a small number of people,
It's still the most prevalent view.
Therefore, one of the great orientalists in Islamic law said:
When colonialism came in the 19th century,
and just look at how their speeches about the first century and the 19th and 20th centuries have been the same.
A casual reader might assume that this is a book specifically about the first century
and it has nothing to do with the 20th century.
But if you look at them all, you'll see the same discourse.
You'll find someone like Joseph Schacht.
He was the leading Western scholar on Islamic law
What did he say?
Listen to this,
"You Muslims, have been suffering for centuries
and those centuries are frozen
and now you are in a predicament."
This speech was in the 19th century
and the beginning of the 20th century.
He continues: Your law has failed.
Your Shari‘a has failed.
You won't do anything that isn't familiar to you.
When you started and established your law
you borrowed Western law,
the Greek and Roman, and so on.
Why don't you do it again?
Because, and this is what the orientalist says, the Muslims have taken all these Western laws
which are originally European.
Notice how they exclude the Persian laws here,
even though the Persians influenced Islam a lot.
Because it's all the work of Orientalists, and thus all of it must be European.
You borrowed all of these laws.
And what did you do with it?
You covered it with fabricated ahadith
and with the Quran.
Until recently, the prevalent Orientalist theory says
that the Quran came to
to sign the hadith as you would a contract.
The Quran signs the Shari‘a
but only after the first 100 years of Hijrah.
This means the Quran had no influence on Islam in the first century.
The Quran came later, just to be the cover.
The Orientalists use the word "Veneer" a lot.
What is the veneer?
When you bring some wood to make a table from it,
it is usually a type of pressed wood of low quality,
so what you do is put a layer on it,
this layer was cut from a natural tree,
and this layer has a thickness of one millimeter.
A layer of unprocessed wood that you stick to it to cover it.
Now the table looks like it was made of all natural wood.
This is what the Muslims did, according to Orientalism.
They brought the Quran and fabricated the ahadith.
That's why the major theory of Orientalism
is that the Prophet's Hadith is all fabricated and fraudulent.
A massive scheme of deceit.
I mean, when you read Orientalism, you will come to one conclusion.
It's that the orientalists say, In a literary and academic way,
that these Muslims are the biggest liars in the world.
All of their civilization is based on deceit and lies.
This is because they fabricated all of Prophet's ahadith.
About 5000 hadith that are hasan (good and authentic) and applied
and has an effective role in the making of Shari‘a
and other 700,000 hadith
that are not considered
at least in Shari‘a,
all of them, including the hasan ones, are lies.
They actually have a motto:
Every hadith is fabricated until proven otherwise.
Ignác Goldziher wrote this motto.
He was a Jewish orientalist from Hungary.
Other prominent orientalists continued his work,
like Christiaan Snouck Hurgronje from the Netherlands,
but it was primarily continued by Schacht from Germany
This is their code.
Every hadith is false until proven otherwise.
This is the Orientalist view of how Shari‘a was formulated.
In the 20th century,
they said: You have done it before. Just take the European laws and say that they are Islamic.
And cover it however you like.
You can say that Shura is Democracy.
And a democracy in the way we want it.
Shura becomes a democracy.
And since Shura has a basis in the old Islamic political discourse,
then this discourse becomes applicable to neoliberalism.
Is this the Western academic discourse?
(Yes, it is.)
The academic?
If you wish, I can provide you with references.
Okay.
This is the Orientalist view
But what had really happened?
It's completely different.
(Let's have it.)
The first thing,
If you read it
like anyone who has a balanced mind,
not programmed or directed toward a certain goal
unlike the colonial mind,
if we read Islamic sources, we'll know
We know that from the first day the Holy Quran was revealed,
the Quran has a significant influence on Muslims
unlike anything else
even in all of human history.
I don't know of a single book that has influenced people's minds like the Quran.
This was the first thing.
And as proven very recently,
after the Prophet's companions died,
the Muslims asked immediately what they should do in such a case.
They had an issue now, so how did they solve it?
They asked: What does the Quran tell us?
So they did this from the beginning.
But all of this needs study.
The Quran is not a law.
The Quran is a book of guidance.
Shari‘a, as it became later, is one thing, and the Quran is another.
The Quran is the basis of Shari‘a, and it is the basis of everything else.
What is Shari‘a?
Shari‘a is the linguistic interpretation.
Ibn Idris al-Shafi'i did a significant project, may God have mercy on him.
The project of Ibn Idris Al-Shafi’i was purely linguistic one.
Purely legitimate linguist.
His book of Al-Risala,
and somewhat in the book Kitab al-Umm,
but mainly in Al-Risala, his project was: how do we understand what Allah wants for us?
How can we know that?
We need signs, evidence, and so on.
We need the rope to hold so we can pull and reach to
the best way to reach and figure out knowledge about what Allah wants from us?
The answer is to imitate the wisdom of Allah.
I watched a few of your episodes, and you asked one of your guests:
What is different about Islamic science?
Islamic science in general
when Muslims have studied astronomy,
and mathematics
and when Ibn al-Haytham studied the eye
and everything else
including law,
it's all about trying to understand how the mind of Allah works.
When Allah created the world,
He created it with justice and wisdom.
Justice.
The whole point is to understand what Allah's justice is.
Even when we studied the planets,
we didn't study it to occupy it, as we do now.
We are trying to find a replacement planet.
Like a bottle of Coca-Cola, you drink it and throw it away.
We're doing to Earth the same thing that we did to that bottle.
You drink it and throw it away
Without responsibility, foresight, or conscience, you are destroying the earth.
And you are happy about yourself.
We do the same thing with planets.
What is the goal of the agency today?
It's to locate a planet similar to Earth.
The solution is to find a planet as far from the sun as we are.
There exist optimal conditions, or those required for survival.
Just look at the wisdom behind it.
If you are looking for another planet, that's fine.
There's nothing wrong with that.
They want another planet because they're destroying this one.
We see it every day.
Thus, the wealthy and powerful travel by spaceship to be kings there.
The rest stay here to suffer
from the destruction that is going to happen.
Is this what's happening right now?
(Oh, yes, it's happening already.)
You're referring to Mars voyage?
Of course.
This is what is different about their science.
Islamic science is completely different in its philosophy from modern science.
It was superior to all other civilizations in the world
and even matched Western science until the eighteenth century.
Absolutely.
Mathematics and astronomical sciences,
the study of the eyes,
and blood circulation
until the beginning of the eighteenth century,
the Muslim doctors used to laugh at the Europeans' work.
They say: What are they doing? They must be centuries behind.
We will look into why there is a new and strong science in the West
by the 19th century and at the end of the 18th century.
Because it has absolutely nothing to do with civilizational progress.
Nothing at all?
On the contrary, it has a full connection to destruction and murder.
(There is no god except Allah.)
For example, the history of medicine is a history of violence from its beginning.
You are using the computer you are holding, right?
Do you know how this came to be?
It's from the war between Germany and the Western European alliance.
They needed a computer
to address the problems that the Germans caused them.
The Germans were directing their submarines to attack ships coming from America.
The ships were sailing to help the British.
The Germans attacked them, and the British were unable to decode the instructions.
If they did, they could redirect their ships or maybe attack the submarines head-on.
So they created a computer.
It's the same computer all of us are using today.
They created it specifically for this.
Therefore, they can win the war against Germany.
But where is the problem?
Since there there was a need that required an invention,
and that invention has become useful in other aspects today.
That is a very good question.
This makes scientific inventions and scientific developments
are not for serving humanity.
Since it has a history of violence,
this means that it is connected to something we can't see yet.
For example, when I say that all the vaccinations
or the first Industrial vaccinations in human history.
Because, as you know, the native Americans had herbal vaccinations.
It is different and not as good as what we have now.
They've had it before.
But the vaccinations against typhoid, cholera, tetanus, and others
Do you know where it came from?
All of this was invented in Europe so that they could send their soldiers
to Niger River in Africa
Because the only way to take over Africa was through the Niger River.
They couldn't occupy it.
Because they send their ships and soldiers,
and in a week or two, they all die from diseases
from stinging insects, flies, etc.
It caused typhoid and other diseases.
They found the solution in vaccination.
Now, what does this mean?
This means you just discovered one and need to do more research.
Did you know medical history was linked this closely to violence?
Very few knew that.
And for the vaccines, I will leave a link in the episode description
to a video explaining some of what happened.
They even experimented on people in Africa.
(Yes.)
Using violence.
You could research the relationship between medicine and the economy.
Colonization wasn't a charity case.
They couldn't colonize without reason. No.
The first main goal in the beginning was to take the wealth of other peoples.
They went and stole all the gold and silver from America.
From South America, mainly, but also from North America.
They shipped them to Europe and used their new wealth to do a variety of things.
They went to India and stole its spices and gold,
and gemstones like rubies and others, and India was full of them.
They plundered Egypt as well.
We all know this story.
But we don't know that medicine, which we're proud of today
and say everyone has a treatment option with modern medicine,
All of this is fully and absolutely tied
to the history of capitalism,
which is a big part of the history of colonialism,
which is a big part of the history of violence
and the development of previously unknown destructive weapons,
and tied to a large part of the European mind that operates in this manner.
I wrote a book called "Restating Orientalism".
I claimed in it that there is no truth produced by the human hand.
Like this Central Park here in New York.
There is no tree here that isn't implanted artificially.
I mean, there is no tree there that was kept from before.
This is man-made.
There is no human creation unless the mind imposes it on us.
In other words, the things we do are a result of how we think.
Our thinking is the most important thing.
If you think in a certain way, you do it that way.
For example, If you gave a kitchen knife to a good, honest cook,
he'll make the best meal
and will present to you with the best reception
and you act like loving brothers, and so on.
He was holding a knife in his hand.
If you give it to a thief who breaks homes,
he'll kill you, steal your home, and leave.
The criminal does different things with it.
The knife is unimportant here.
It's only a tool.
The responsible for the decision is the mind
and the way of thinking.
Europe and all its thinking since the beginning of its history,
although it is long and complicated
and it dates back to the Barbarian ages
when these barbarian clans and tribes migrated
from Northern Europe to Spain and Germany
and later were called the Visigoths, Germanic, Franks, and others.
These are all from the northern peoples.
They invaded Europe and filled it with their people.
So they had a certain way of thinking.
Their God is a god of war, and this is how it started.
Has it ended or not?
(No, it didn't.)
So it still governs their thoughts.
It started to evolve and take different forms
but the content remained largely the same.
For example, the Chinese had gunpowder 1500 years ago.
The first people to invent the gun were the Chinese.
The first people who stuffed the gun with gunpowder were the Chinese.
Well, why didn't the Chinese occupy the rest of the world?
In 1422, they built a fleet of a thousand ships.
They were frightening.
Each one was the size of 4–5 European ships at that time.
They sailed for Africa.
And visited Africa.
And they fought some criminal pirates at sea.
They gathered plants.
They brought representatives of the sultans and kings with them
to introduce them to the Chinese emperor.
And they went back.
They returned with the elephants, giraffes, and other beautiful animals,
and with gorgeous plants
And some ambassadors from different states.
And they left their fleet in the ports of China to rot.
What did Europe do?
They discovered Chinese gunpowder
and they discovered how to make cannons as well.
And just like that,
with no time wasted,
they built the deadliest ships in human history.
Their ships were relatively small
and they utilized gun ports
that have the capability to penetrate a much larger ship and sink it
So neither Muslims, Chinese, nor anyone else could stop them.
When Portuguese and Spanish sailed down to the Indian ocean,
no one could resist them.
That's why they controlled the Indian Sea.
The pattern of trade has changed completely.
The pattern of trade was prevalent between Muslims, Chinese, Indians, and others.
By the way, most of the customs were according to Shari‘a.
Even the Chinese followed the law of the sea as dictated by Shari‘a.
It's not that it's inescapable.
It is because it existed before and it was customary, so they took it and used it.
This is all broken now.
And the Portuguese came and said: If you want to pass, you have to pay us money.
But if there is gold in your cargo, whether you pay or not, we will take you and your gold.
You are our captive, and your gold is ours.
We would build palaces with it in Portugal, France, and England.
Didn't the Muslims have the same goals?
They had a desire to expand, and they did so.
To the point where Harun al-Rashid said to a cloud: Pour it wherever you want, the taxes from that are mine.
It's true, and this is how occupying other people works, but there are limits.
If you want, we can discuss why it was like that, specifically after the 17th century.
Europe was the exception in human history.
This is what we should understand.
We have been living as cohesive and political societies
as small cities or city-states
for 7000 years.
Our history today
or the known written history,
More or less, we are somewhat aware of it.
Rather, we know a lot about where it stopped and when.
It goes back to five or six thousand years ago.
In human history, this has been written about, and we know it.
The only exception to this history is Europe.
If it were to be illustrated on a diagram,
you begin from the corner
the line will go smoothly
barely above the lower line
and suddenly there will be a jump
this jump takes about 2% of the line length
But whether up or down, it depends on how you view European history.
If you see it as Wael Hallaq did, then it will go down.
But if you see it according to who sold their souls and minds to the colonization, it will go up.
Can we know why it went down based on Wael's view?
Because most people see it go up.
This episode will have digressions
and these digressions are fantastic.
- (We can go back if you want to.)
- Sure.
Then let's go back to the evolution of Shari‘a.
Could guide us to how it happened.
Great.
Thank you for taking us back.
No problem.
I can say that the biggest and most important act
that happened in the history of Islam to establish Shari‘a
was in the era of Omar Ibn Al-Khattab, may Allah be pleased with him.
Omar played a frightening role in the creation of Islam.
Why is that?
Of course, he established the Diwans and many other acts.
But half of the Diwans were originally Persian.
He utilized them with superb intelligence.
Of course, this is clear to all.
But what did he really do?
Since the beginning, he ordered that wherever there is an Islamic gathering,
and usually those tribes that participated in the invasion
were in conflict with each other.
When they arrived in Iraq and even in Egypt, in Fustat,
they started to fight with each other.
They all participated in occupying Egypt,
but when they were done, they started disagreeing on some matters.
They brought with them their tribal history from Arabia.
Disagreements started to happen.
Omar didn't want that.
There are other places to conquer.
There is a state to be established.
An empire.
So, what did he do?
Any place that has an Islamic gathering should have a mosque built immediately.
What is a mosque?
We hear and read about it a lot in history.
They say: He built mosques on the frontiers.
But what does this really mean?
The mosque is not just a building.
The first step to having a mosque is the building.
A small step.
However, what happens inside the mosque?
What are the practices in the mosque?
The mosque has an Imam and a muezzin.
Although it was small, the mosque was present.
They started reciting stories.
The stories contained a lot of the Prophet's Hadiths
and many of the Prophet's commands and actions,
including what he did and didn't do and what he forbade or didn't forbid.
It included a lot of al-Athar.
Al-Athar are the sayings and the language that are a kind of source for our actions.
Or it could be Eibrah (a cautionary lesson or story that serves to warn).
The Eibrah guides the actions.
This is why it's called that.
When he built the mosques,
and this is 10 to 15 years after the death of the Prophet,
people started going to the mosque
Those occupiers who went to the mosques
their leaders were, without a doubt, Muslims to the fullest.
They were loyal to the cause.
While those tribes were apostate a few years ago.
Abu Bakr, who ruled before Omar, was fighting them.
They took part in the conquests as well.
They were only halfway committed to Islam.
We don't assume that all Muslims who conquered
understood Islam perfectly on a personal level.
Some of them wanted other things.
However, the majority of them and all the leaders were pure.
The leadership was pure.
This is why they conquered.
That is why 2000 of them can crush 20,000 of their enemies.
Because they were very committed to the cause.
And they had children.
They sent their children to the mosque.
And this generation, the generation of these children,
the descendants of those who conquered lands for Islam.
It is the generation that started to produce people who not only have faith in Islam
but also have a commitment to what Islam requires as a civilization
and a personal and social concept.
Islam is not only about the two Shahada.
They are not enough to make you a true Muslim.
They do introduce you to Islam and let you in Islam.
However, when you enter through the house door,
you don't stop at the door and call it home.
You don't put your bed at the house door.
You have to live long enough in it before it becomes part of you.
Islam is about forming subjectivity, which is the most important thing.
My dear friend, we have to understand one thing.
There is no understanding of any phenomenon today,
a phenomenon that is related to human formation,
unless it goes back to self-formation.
We have to understand who we are and who the rest are.
Why is your program so successful?
I've been thinking about it for a few weeks.
If I take you off your show and put someone else on it,
The show will change completely. But why?
Because of your subjectivity.
The way you think
The way you ask your guest
The way you treat your guest
They bring everything.
It is hard sometimes to understand what exactly has to do with self-formation.
But all together, it becomes a tremendous success. All praise to Allah.
Subjectivity is when someone says: I'm not comfortable with him; I prefer another one.
But what does it mean, and why?
You aren't uncomfortable with him for no reason.
But you are uncomfortable with his subjectivity.
Subjectivity is everything.
And there was an Islamic subjectivity.
The tribes that participated in the conquests,
their subjectivity was not purely Islamic.
Once the first generation was created and grew up in mosques,
Islamic subjectivity started to form as if almost everything was there.
Where did jurisprudence originate?
This is an undeniable truth that cannot be downgraded below that of the pyramids.
The pyramids, wonders of Egypt, stand tall and high.
This is also one of the most important facts.
This is due to jurisprudence and the law,
and it was called Shari‘a rather than law, which is what we call it now,
The Law of the Political Apparatus and the Law of the Social Apparatus,
they were created entirely by simple members of society, sometimes they were even poor.
When a judge from Egypt or Damascus was ruling between the people,
or he was judging the people,
certain cases were sometimes incomprehensible to him
So he writes to Omar, for example,.
He says: I have a difficult problem with a case. Please guide us.
Omar says in most cases: You should strive to deduce the best opinion (Ijtihad).
Nowadays, if I didn't know what the law is,
and I write to the director of a legal office in the state,
do you think they'll tell me to do ijtihad?
In this age?
The state has a law, and it always does.
The state is the one that sets the law.
No one can ever challenge that.
But the Caliph did not legislate.
Omar, for instance,
he had legal stances
because he was a companion and not because he was a caliph
What's the difference?
The companion is a jurist.
He understands how the Prophet would have solved the problem.
He knows from his experience.
A companion of the Prophet is a person who was with him.
The companionship was not only on a social level.
The social aspect is what comes to mind first.
In Islam, the issue of Prophet's companions
is a purely epistemological issue.
This means the companion knows about what the Prophet wants,
and the prophet knows what Allah wants,
in a way that is the closest thing between any human being and another
or between any human being and any other divine power.
Omar was a companion.
Ibn Mas'ud, for example, was even closer than Omar.
One of the greatest lawmen was Ibn Mas'ud,
if it were possible to call it that today.
He is the greatest lawman in the history of Islam.
How did they come to that?
They were so close to the prophet that they almost knew what the prophet knew.
It's a matter of knowing.
The issue is not that he sat with the Prophet and drank coffee
and they became friends.
Omar and Abu Bakr used to go with the prophet and eat breakfast together,
and they visit even Jewish schools
and listen to what they teach there.
They were open to others, and they did a lot of things together.
But this in itself is not a social relationship; it is an epistemological relationship.
The new generation that grew up in mosques and the teachings of mosques
and what was happening in the mosques
They were the jurists.
The jurisprudence became in the hands of the people
and not in the hands of politics.
And from here, we begin to understand the vast difference
between the concept of Islamic political structure
and the Western political structure today.
For example, if someone had a problem
and he wants to consult someone,
he would go to ordinary people who specialize in Jurisprudence.
You can find other stories like this.
There was a leather seller
as you know, like in shoes, clothing, etc.
In front of his shop in the market, he teaches his students jurisprudence.
We are talking about approximately the year 80 Hijri.
They were sitting in a circle around him to learn about jurisprudence.
And someone interrupted his lesson
because he wanted to buy a leather belt.
So the teacher stood up, sold the belt, and took the money,
and went back to sit with his students to continue his lesson.
This is in the Medina only, or in all cities?
This story is either from Basra or Kufa; I can't remember.
Because they were some of the first centers for the emergence of al-Fiqh (jurisprudence).
The first formation of jurisprudence has begun.
It was an answer to the question: What do we do in these cases?
It came from these people, who are among the social average.
They were not either military or political leaders.
People like you and me, as they say.
Some of them are small traders, or even rich ones in a few instances.
I mean, they were ordinary people who lived a normal life.
May I inquire about something?
This could create a dilemma
What if someone issued a fatwa that was contrary to what Islam agrees upon?
Is there someone to correct him?
It depends.
Is someone going to stop him and tell him that he is wrong?
Yes, there were, of course, debates about the opinions.
I mean, this is a statement, and when one comes out with a statement, then it is just a statement.
You'll find that Omar bin Al-Khattab appoints the Wali (prefect).
A wali of Iraq, for example.
No.
But he is the one who sent him there.
- (As a judge?)
- Yes, a judge.
- (Yes, that correct)
- I, as a representative of the state, appointed him.
As a ruler and a wali, not as a government.
A little while ago, you said
that this happens to simple people.
But in fact, the leader, Caliph, Commander of the faithful, or whatever, is the one who appointed the wali, or judge.
I realize that, but what I am talking about is something else entirely.
Of course, judges are part of the legal system.
The one responsible for it was the Caliph in the beginning.
And then the Sultan centuries later.
Of course, the judge must have cleverness and experience in many things.
examining social norms, for example, in addition to laws.
He must be knowledgeable about Shari‘a and many other things.
But we assume that this judge was appointed after training.
I mean, someone must have shown him how to do these things, right?
But how al-Fiqh was established is another matter.
The judiciary is not directly involved in how jurisprudence is written in books.
It was connected in that the author served as a judge.
But sometimes it's not like that.
We know that there are some jurists who refuse to work in the judiciary.
A rejection based on principle.
They devoted themselves to classification and writing books.
And to education as elders in schools.
It was mainly about teaching jurisprudence and al-Ifta
You have four jobs in the judiciary that are very important.
Which are judiciary, fatwa,
classification or writing books, which is also a special art,
and sheikhdom, which is the education of the new generation.
There are many of them who refuse to become judges.
The state, at that time,
It's responsible for the judiciary only and not al-Ifta or education.
- (Exactly.)
The judge applies the jurisprudence that was produced
by so-called early people of faith.
Because it started with faith.
They believed in Islam in such a way that they entered into it in spirit and body.
This is the reason.
They entered into it in spirit and body.
This made them wonder,
what if we wanted to eat or drink something,
or if a mouse falls into the oil, etc.
All these issues, what are we going to do about it.
They started to answer these questions.
And they came forward and said, I think it's like this.
I am a jurist myself, and I practice my own opinions according to my own diligence.
And if you want to take it, go ahead; if not, don't. You are free to do what you want.
Another jurist did the same thing.
And then it evolved into the schools of jurisprudence.
which later became known as madhhabs.
The very important thing here is that we understand,
and I'm going back to the Orientalist discourse that we talked about a little while ago.
When they occupied the lands of the Levantine, Persian, and so on.
Of course, there was a civilization in Syria, the Byzantine civilization.
In the East, it was the Persian civilization.
They were very impressive.
However, these new believers
They took what they wanted and refused what they didn't want.
They weren't like the colonized people of today in the Islamic world and elsewhere.
They are forced to take it.
But back then, they took it from a position of strength.
Ok in the era of the Rightly Guided Caliphate,
were the jurists the most influential on Shari‘a?
In the Prophet's era?
(No, in the era of the Caliphate.)
During the reign of the first Caliphate?
Yes, in the era of Abu Bakr and Omar.
In the era of Abu Bakr and Omar, al-Fiqh had not yet been established.
There were some institutions, like Diwans.
Diwans are part of Jurisprudence.
It's true that it came from Persia
but mostly and not entirely
because the Diwans evolved later.
And there are things in it that the Persians did not know before.
At the beginning, in the era of Omar, they were mostly Persian.
And in the end, it became part of the jurisprudential specifications.
For example, all the books of al-Ahkam al-Sultaniyya by al-Mawardi
and Abu Ya'la ibn al-Farra'
and Ibn Jama'ah, Ibn Taymiyyah, and others,
they all say that Diwans are a section of Shari‘a specifications.
But there was not yet the generation I am talking about.
They are still trying to find their way.
The first generation of jurists started
under the first period of the Umayyad state.
Before I get to the Umayyad state,
I want to talk about Orientalists.
Don't you agree that it's normal to take from other civilizations
to form your legislation?
Diwans are from Persia
and other things you took from other civilizations.
Where is the problem? Maybe they are right?
No doubt.
Muslims were among the most skilled people
to open their minds to all their neighbors.
They went to India and brought a lot from there.
The same is true for Persia, Greece, and others.
Based on Shari‘a?
No, but everything.
Why did I say everything?
When you said Shari‘a, Shari‘a had the principles of jurisprudence.
Well, the principles of jurisprudence have logic.
Aristotle and his logic went into the principles of jurisprudence.
This means that it's in the Shari‘a.
And at the same time, Kalam had logic.
And so on.
The division of sciences in Islam
are often artificial divisions.
This is due to the extensive connections between the Islamic sciences.
To the extent that when a science is developed dramatically
and if the same happened to another science
It's like two trees that have intertwined.
They are nourished by the same land.
They even communicate with each other.
We know that trees talk to each other, even below the ground.
It's the same thing.
Islam
Was there any issue with this?
No, because Islam was including them from a position of power.
They can include whatever they want.
If modern terminology is appropriate, Islam was the imperialist state.
They can take what they want and leave out what they don't.
Sometimes one takes and the other doesn't.
For example,
Ibn Hazm, like al-Ghazali, used logic.
By the way, Ibn Hazm started his project before al-Ghazali.
Contrary to today's prevailing concept.
But al-Ghazali undoubtedly had the biggest effect
But historically, Ibn Hazm preceded and began before Al-Ghazali.
When Al-Ghazali included logic,
Ibn Taymiyyah came and told him to wait a little because there were some issues.
I don't think you fully understand what you are doing.
You're a genius, no doubt,
but there are problems with logic.
You thought logic was innocent
and it's just a thinking tool.
No, logic is extremely complicated.
Logic ends in metaphysics.
If you correctly understood all the ramifications of logic,
logic will lead to metaphysics.
The Greek metaphysics,
and both of al-Ghazali and Ibn Taymiyyah agreed on this that it's mostly corrupt.
This means that there is something wrong with logic.
For that, he wrote al-Radd ala al-Mantiqiyyin (The Refutation of the Logicians).
It takes 550 pages in today's publishing.
Even when al-Suyuti tried, he reduced it to about 150–200 pages.
It's an abridgement of Ibn Taymiyya’s refutation of logic only, not the rest.
This is a book I translated into English.
There were conflicts—professional conflicts—and not in the bad sense.
But there was a great Intellectual and civilized dynamic in Islam
They accepted and rejected a lot of things.
For example, If you take the principles of jurisprudence (Usul Al-Fiqh),
And the principles of jurisprudence are full of materials that came from many sides.
But other than the introductions to some of the principles of jurisprudence,
in the analogical reasoning (Al-Qiyas)
It's called al-qiyas al-burhani.
But than the burhani type,
If you know principles of jurisprudence very well
to the point that you know its precise entries,
you would be able to smell the food
and you'll know that, for example, there is turmeric
or even mahleb or others.
Even though you don't see it,
but you smell it, you barely taste it, and it's definitely there.
When you read about Greek and Indian scientists,
you'll find shared opinions.
This is because they have taken it from them.
Let me just say this as sequel to this discussion,
Because it is extremely important.
Muslims today are open to very large Western influences.
But there is a huge difference.
Today, Muslims are taking from the West from a position of weakness, not strength.
This makes a significant difference.
We have discussed a part of the Rashidun Caliphate.
The Umayyad Caliphate and its beginning were different.
Many historians say that it is the beginning of
I mean that the Rashidun Caliphate is an era different than the Umayyad state era.
Did this shift affect Islamic law and legislation?
A good question.
First, let's take a small look at Orientalism and Islamic history itself.
There is a historical problem.
It is because of the Abbasid dawa
and their revolution against the Umayyad.
And the way they crushed the Umayyad.
It created a discourse in Islamic history
which was adopted by new historians, including orientalists.
The Umayyad state, because of Muawiyah and the initial wars, is a bad state,
and that they have done terrible things
while the Abbasids came to fix things.
Of course, this is wrong.
The Abbasids have caliphs whose records are not very good.
Political rule is always like that.
Take a look at the history of America and its presidents.
How many of them are corrupt and have done terrible things?
This is how politics are.
The political field extends between good and corruption.
And it leans more toward corruption.
Politics always requires a lot of immoral acts.
To judge the Umayyads, we must take into consideration
that they ruled, and they were rulers like any other,
and they have to be measured by the same standard.
This was number one.
Number two: the Abbasid propaganda against them affected them a lot
to the point where they appear negatively in Islamic history.
Shari‘a was primarily established by the Umayyads.
Yes, of course.
However, it's not only due to their encouragement
but there was a way of thinking that was recognized, normal, and customary
which required
and this builds on what we previously said
which required individual scholars
who can create jurisprudence and the building of Shari‘a
which means in our modern language
that the state and the Islamic empire did not interfere
in the establishment of any department or any part of the legislative authority.
The legislative authority in Islam was a civilization in itself.
They are the scholars, the Shari‘a,
and the civilization they spread across.
And it's not just as strong as the legislative authority of today,
which are the parliaments and so on,
but Shari‘a was a civilization.
Shari‘a is the legislative authority at the same time.
I'll give you a simple example to help you understand what we are talking about.
Today, If you want to serve in the state,
you should go to law schools and study books that teach the state's law.
The state will tell you what these laws are.
You must become a servant of the state
in the individual, personal, and even subjective sense
to fill this job.
To do this job.
However, throughout Islamic history,
and until the last day there ever was a caliphate or sultan in Islam,
who Ataturk eliminated in Turkey,
it was always that the Caliph and the Caliph's men,
and the children of the Caliph's men,
and the women of the children of the Caliph's men,
and all the crew that was called the royal family in today's terminology,
they were studying and absorbing the Shari‘a's civilization in society.
Who taught the children of the caliphs and sultans?
The scholars.
What do they teach them?
Quran, Sunnah, Hadith, Islamic history, literature, etc.
Shari‘a was the teacher of the sultans.
The house of the sultan or caliph did not decide on laws that the people must follow.
As we do today.
We have a ruling class.
The wealthy and corporations in America decide who the rulers are,
and the people will follow them wherever they tell them to go, as simple as that.
The books of Noam Chomsky are very important on this subject.
Like his book, Manufacturing Consent.
Shari‘a was in full control of the legislative authority.
This is the framework from which Shari‘a emerged in the Umayyad State.
The legislative authority was established
and it provided the judiciary authority with people to carry out these tasks,
which are the judges.
Without any interference.
The state did not interfere with it.
Because this was a socio-religious phenomenon.
It wasn't a political phenomenon.
How can we interpret the issue of the creation of the Quran
with Ahmad ibn Hanbal and his imprisonment?
How do you compare this with the sultan or caliph, who had an opinion on the law?
This was called mihna (ordeal).
Mihna was a desperate attempt by some of the Abbasid caliphs
who thought they could own all the land.
And the mihna itself was not about Shari‘a.
Shari‘a was not the subject of discussion in that ordeal.
Rather, it was about Aqaʾid (Islamic creeds) and the fundamentals of the religion.
This was the ordeal of the Quranic createdness.
(How about Ibn Taymiyyah?)
You mean Ibn Hanbal.
I meant that Ibn Taymiyyah was imprisoned for a jurisprudential case.
Yes, he was imprisoned for that, but not Ibn Hanbal.
Ibn Taymiyyah's life is similar to that of Suhrawardi.
The Murdered Master.
You could be imprisoned for a reason that,
and of course, Ibn Taymiyyah was an immensely great man,
but I'm going to give an example of the situation
How does the state catch one of the mafia bosses today?
Even though he's a killer
still, you can't hold anything against them
So they catch them with tax-income crimes.
Ibn Taymiyyah had many enemies for different reasons
Ibn Taymiyyah was outspoken and strongly expressed his views.
Like Ibn Abd al-Salam.
And he insults the Sultan,
although he was friends with some great Mamluks.
Ibn Taymiyyah had a somewhat strong personality.
Sometimes he used to say things that raised many political enemies.
But when they try to judge him with anything,
and he was a part of a long and wide progress,
They won't isolate all the other problems and judge him in this one thing
No. There were a lot of complications.
Al-Hallaj was killed for a reason
other than the one for which he was being tried.
He fell into a situation where it allowed the minister to end him.
They had other reasons.
They apprehended him for a minor claim and murdered him.
You don't see that in all the states of Umayyad, Abbasid, and Ottoman
there was no interference at all?
Shari‘a prevailed as the supreme master over the sultans.
This is also a very firm point.
Shari‘a is the one that decided what the political structures were
and governance in Islam as well.
You said: Sufism is the overall explanation of Shari‘a.
also: Islam relies on two dimensions, Sufism and Shari‘a.
What do you mean by Sufism?
Sufism is the care of soul-body.
You add a dash between soul and body.
They are considered one word.
The soul-body is there to educate the legitimate personality.
Notice that Shari‘a started with some principles of Sufism.
If look at Sufism,
for example, fasting was in the Shari‘a from the beginning
Not just Shari‘a, but since the inception of Islam.
It is in many verses in the Holy Quran.
It's also one of the five Pillars of Islam.
What is the meaning of fasting?
Today, we haven't started to understand 0.001% of what fasting and hunger mean
in educating human subjectivity.
There is a lot of work.
I have students that I try to guide to study the meaning of fasting and hunger.
And how they relate to creating a unique subjectivity.
It's very important.
What is special about Sufism is that
it takes humility, fasting, noiselessness, and silence,
and also the Maqamat and all other conditions
and you take them to form it into effective formula
in the person's actions
to make him the ideal example of the legitimate self.
This is why Al-Ghazali wrote the Revival of Religious Sciences.
The Revival of Religious Sciences is the summary
of Islamic efforts from the previous two centuries or more.
Al-Ghazali died in 505 AH.
1111 AD.
Sufism began in Baghdad, mainly.
It had spread to other places
since the beginning of the third century AH.
At the end of the third century AH, its features were almost clear.
In the fourth century, it evolved.
At the time of al-Ghazali in the fifth century, it had a full shape
and was very effective, but not as much later on.
There were many great Sufis during this period.
Abu Nasr as-Sarraj and many others had voices that were loud and recognized.
Revival of Religious Sciences of al-Ghazali
combined one leg of Sufism and one of Shari‘a in one mold.
Islam stands on the legs of Sufism and Shari‘a more than any other.
I call them the central domains.
Shari‘a and Sufism are two central domains in Islam.
Let's talk about mathematics.
It's a secondary domain
because it supports the central domain and serves its objectives.
In today's world, art is a secondary domain that serves capitalism.
Of course, it has a lot of artistic things, artistic taste, and beauty.
Aesthetics, as they say
Of course, when I painted these paintings, it wasn't for capitalistic reasons; I didn't want to sell them.
They are mine; I made them to hang around my house.
A lot of artists are like that.
In the end, the power of the central domain flips the priorities of the secondary domain.
If I died for example,
and my daughter knows how to market them
and people find these paintings beautiful.
Then they buy them and resell them.
Today, Picasso or other great ones,
Where can you find their paintings?
They are present on a yacht that a Russian billionaire bought for his girlfriend.
He bought her one of Picasso's
Imagine how Picasso painted his paintings
And in Madrid or mainly in Paris,
between 1905 until he died.
Imagine what he was thinking about while painting
and how his art became part of Capitalism.
Insurance companies buy them and put them in the halls of huge buildings in Tokyo.
What is the difference if the art didn't serve Capitalism
and served a central domain like Islam?
What is going to be different about it?
If the central domain was a moral domain,
and that is a new topic in this discussion
we could go on for hours discussing it.
So, if the central domain is a moral domain,
it doesn't matter how the secondary domains transform.
In the end, it will serve the moral domain.
And the moral domain is always a humane domain.
It's humane because it cares about what's inside a human.
It cares about his soul first, then his body.
To his soul, his nafs (self), and his body.
Shari‘a and Sufism
are fundamentally central domains.
By the way, Shari‘a is not essentially a legal apparatus.
When I say 'legal apparatus', I use modern terminology.
Does this mean that the words legal or law (qanoon) do not exist in Islamic heritage?
No, it was the Turkish Qanoon that emerged
as a weak link or thread
to increase the punishments, for example, for adultery and prostitution.
However, it came to prove the basic principles of Sharia
They called it law, but it's not like the law of today.
Today, The Law is the legal rulings issued by the states.
They are purely political and statutory issues.
Ok, based on your book about the state
you mentioned in your book 'Sharī'a'
that the Ottoman state is the first state
to choose a madhhab for itself.
The Hanafi Madhhab
What is the effect of choosing one madhhab on the state?
And on legislation?
Why did the Ottomans do it while others before them didn't?
(True. Why didn't it happen before?)
Before them, the Mamluks were in Egypt and Syria.
They had four of them, not just one or two.
They thought that all four madhhabs should have a presence.
They have a chief justice for each one.
The Ottomans refused and picked the Hanafi Madhhab only.
But you have to look
at what domain
the Ottoman state was established in
The Ottomans
with the Safavid state
and the Mughal state
they were three Islamic empires
that were some of the most powerful empires of that time.
They were called the Gunpowder Empires.
The Gunpowder Empires
They were the first to import and use gunpowder and old handguns.
But this name is not a matter of describing the use of weapons only.
Rather, it is a description of new Islamic and non-Muslim empires
that started to work differently in their political rule.
There was a difference.
From the the beginning of Islam to the Mamluks
there was some kind of continuity.
There was somewhat of a jump.
It was small compared to the one in the 19th century.
It was a small jump before the Ottomans rose.
And the Safavids and others.
But why?
All of these developments
happened in what is called
World history.
World history is a field of study.
It means the whole history of the world
If a historian studies history
of Aleppo in Syria or a village near it.
This is a short history.
But he could study Islam
or the Islam of Mamluks or Umayyads.
World history
covers the colloquial map
to study the actions of the states and how they affect each other
and their dealings with each other, and who affected who.
When you only study a specific village
such as the marriage practices in a village in northern China,
that's fine and good for you,
but you don't know much.
Because you are confined to it.
Unless you start comparing and seeing
It is always necessary to compare with others.
Comparative studies are a new science in the human mind.
If I stay without it, my mind will be different.
And when I import it into my mind and start comparing
my mind will evolve immensely.
The comparison is very important.
My whole scientific project, from beginning to end,
whenever I cover an area
I go to another area similar to it, parallel to it, in another civilization
and I see how it's doing.
This is to understand the relativism of the first field that I studied
which is Shari‘a for me.
Comparisons are very important.
What was the question again, please?
(I got distracted there for a second.)
It was about the Ottomans choosing the Hanafi Madhhab.
We lost track while discussing a methodological topic.
The Ottomans came as a reaction,
part of it was a reaction,
for the first European expansions.
When the Ottomans rose, the Renaissance in Europe was happening.
What was happening in Italy at that time,
and they were very close to them,
What was happening in Italy and Spain at that time was very important.
Part of the Ottomans in Europe and the other in Asia.
This is before their occupation of Arab states
like Egypt, Palestine, and Syria.
When they started to develop,
and when you look at who those Ottoman Sultans were,
The vast majority of the Ottoman sultans' mothers
who strongly ruled with their children and husbands
The women of the Royal Palace in Islam
had great importance and influence in governance.
For example, Suleiman the Magnificent
Who was his wife?
She was a Christian Ukrainian.
He married her, and she converted to Islam and had children.
She became his ruling partner..
He is Suleiman the Lawgiver or Suleiman the Magnificent
When you go to visit Sulaymaniyah in Istanbul,
You'd say he was one of the greatest men, and he really was,
but his wife was very important too.
And his children as well.
Who was their mother? It's Roxelana.
The Ottomans sent spies to Europe
to see the latest European cannon design and build one like it in Istanbul.
If you study Ottoman military history
you'll find that it was filled with stories like it.
Not only that,
they hired Austrian and Swedish engineers
they paid them a lot more than they make in Europe to get them to Istanbul
to help them build this new kind of cannon.
They knew a great deal about what Europeans were doing.
So, what did they do about it?
There is a main reason Europe became modern.
The modernity we know about
It's Political Centralization.
Everything became concentrated in one place.
They call it Centralization in English.
Everything is built in one place.
Because European history originated with a king.
They used to call him the absolute ruler.
He was the legislator.
In Monarchy, the king says: I speak on behalf of God.
It was the absolute ruler in Europe, or absolutism.
The king thinks he is God's representative on earth.
He is the law.
As Louis XIV said.
And he represents God on Earth and speaks for him.
The Ottomans couldn't do something like that.
Because of Islam and the Islamic society.
If they said something like that, all the Ottoman family would be exiled.
And all the Islamic peoples will rise to stop it.
But this is what they did instead.
They thought that having four Madhhabs was complicated and too much trouble.
And there were some troubles.
When you have a plurality of sects
and this much freedom of law
you'll have to pay its price.
What was the price?
We'll talk about it in a little while.
They wanted to take three of the madhhabs to a lower position.
Not in a negative way.
And they will be managed and ruled by the Hanafi madhhab
The chief Justice will be appointed in Istanbul.
Let's say the Chief Justice of Egypt.
So he goes from Istanbul to Cairo.
While in Cairo, Alexandrea or any other
He appoints judges according to who lives in this country.
If there were too many Hanbalis, he would give them more than one Hanbali judge.
The same is true for Shafii and the rest.
It's not that they disappeared,
but the Ottoman Shari‘a Administration
was centralized in Istanbul.
And Istanbul produced the Hanafi madhab only.
The chief justice is Hanafi.
The chief justice is the beholder.
The beholder is the one who examines things.
How have this idea and this change affected the Muslim world?
It wasn't a qualitative change.
It is a quantitative change.
And of course, if the quantity gets too much, it becomes a quality.
Quality and quantity are not two different things.
If you had a white paint bowl
and you put one red dot in it
and you mix it, it will still be white.
With a second drop it will still be white.
With 100 drops, it will be mostly white.
If you add a cup, it will turn pink.
But if you add 10 times the amount of red paint, it will be completely red.
Quality and quantity are connected.
The Ottoman Empire had a kind of quantity that didn't become quality.
However, this quantity,
later in the nineteenth century, after the year 1826, it became important.
These changes, for example, centralize the Shari‘a administratively in the Hanafi madhab.
And dividing the Sanjaks and the empire in a certain way
and collect taxes in a certain way.
They were trying to do them all in a successful way, but for what?
They were learning from Europe.
It's not that they were scared; Europe was actually very weak.
But when you see that your neighbor invented a new weapon,
and even if you are 100 times stronger than him,
you would want to know what he is doing.
From a position of power.
So they used to take things from Europe.
One of them was facilitating the administration of the empire by this method.
In 1826
for the first time
the Ottoman empire found itself
in a very severe predicament.
Since the 1777-80
until a little more over 1800
and a lot more later on
but I am focusing on the era before 1826
The Russian Tsarist
was handing them crushing defeat after crushing defeat.
In almost every war, the Russians win.
At first, the Ottomans were winning,
and they took the now-disputed areas between Ukraine and Russia.
like Crimea
What happened in this period
is that Ottomans lost war after war
So much so that it ruined it economically.
It began internal reforms, and they reformed armies.
All of their military apparatus
it happened before 1826
but in 1826, the first phase of army reform had ended.
This is very important.
But there was a radical change
it added to the quality, not just the quantity.
For the first time in Islamic history,
the state says that large and important Islamic Awqaf (Endowments)
belongs to the capital of Istanbul.
In Islamic history, Awqaf have always been independent
It has its budgets, its economy,
and its management, they were supervised by a judge.
Every year, he checks the books, accounts, and the rest.
He leaves what's theirs to them.
But in 1826,
All the Awqaf send their income to the capital
and the capital decides how much goes back to the Awqaf.
Not every Awqaf has its own budget any more.
Its budget became subject to state intervention.
And things started to get worse and worse for Shari‘a from that day on.
If you took the Awqaf from the hands of Shari‘a, you killed Shari‘a.
This is how it worked at that time.
At the beginning, Shari‘a didn't need the Awqaf.
But later on,
at the start of the fifth century,
there were Nizamiyyas in Baghdad
established by Nizam al-Mulk
The famous Vizier of Seljuk Empire
after that, it was like a flood
of Awqaf were built in Islamic history.
It was everywhere you look.
By the way, when the crusaders entered
they learned to create their colleges
in Bologna, Paris, and London
From the Muslims.
Columbia University is an updated version,
or a modern version of the Nizamiyyas Madrasa system in Baghdad.
Ok, this was the first intervention
The Ottomans took Awqaf to themselves
They controlled Awqaf.
After about 20 years,
it entered the stage of the so-called Tanzimat.
In my personal opinion, the Tanzimat came in 1826, not 1856.
What are these Tanzimat?
The Tanzimat was the beginning
of Westernization of infrastructure
for the Ottoman Empire
Westernization in the sense that it becomes like the West.
Islamic laws have started to be left on the sidelines.
They imported crime and penal codes from Germany
and other laws from France and Italy.
They used them instead of the Islamic laws.
The first step was taken in 1852.
But the Awqaf and their confiscations,
in the meaning I described
and not the traditional way
This was in 1826
In 1826, it was the first step that cleared the way
to blow up
a section of Islamic Shari‘a and Islamic laws
in the fifties of the nineteenth century.
They then started establishing European-style law schools.
They created a new generation
that is related to Western law and the application of Western law.
Excuse me?
And here is where the codification of Sharia took place?
Codifying of Sharia happened later
but this was the start.
The 'Mecelle' is somewhat of a codification.
But we'll talk about codification maybe later
because it is a little more complicated than that
Let's go back to 1826 to see what happened to Awqaf.
All of the Awqaf income went to Istanbul.
Istanbul returns a little bit of it
and they take the rest
to spend it on wars and other things.
These new law schools
train people to graduate
and later hold strong positions.
But at the same time,
the money that went back to traditional scholars who studied Shari‘a,
it was reduced to 20%–15% of what they used to get.
I'll give you a small example:
Imagine that China occupied America
whether it was a direct occupation or the kind that forced their will
because colonization has many methods
and you look for the one who makes or produces
the fertile grounds and the froth of the law in America
They are the main educators
in the well-known law schools
which are Harvard, Yale, Columbia
and other 4 or 5 schools.
If we look at Harvard and Yale,
How much do the professors make there?
About $300,000 and 500,000
These are their wages.
This is the average.
Imagine if China creates new law schools
in America
that decide the effective decisions
in legislating the legal market
in courts
and we pay them between $300,000 and 500,000.
while at Yale and Harvard they reduce it to $50,000.
This is exactly what happened to Islam in the nineteenth century.
If you look at a professor at Harvard Law School after this,
who was wealthy, lived in luxury and had a high position,
will he send his children to the same school?
No, of course.
It's fallen.
They'll send their children to the new and better schools.
Because they care about their children.
They are the fruit of your loins.
You'll send them to the best choice.
Imagine with me that the schools of jurisprudence have deteriorated
and it started to fade away.
To the point where, in 1860 or 1870 at most,
the last people who wrote in the old jurisprudential way
and the old style and the old dialectical method
have stopped.
And a new style of writing began, which was shallow and lacked depth.
And knows nothing about the past.
When there were judges in Egypt in 1920,
they had problems when they tried to read al-Fiqh
They struggled to read and comprehend it.
Here is an exaggerated example:
When I was young professor,
without naming any names,
I met at that time
the main leader in the Supreme Constitutional Court in Egypt
we were talking on a street in London.
He said: I get it,
but why Shari‘a,
the Shari‘a people write in incomprehensible codes,
I can't understand their writings"
He doesn't understand what al-Fiqh is or how to read it.
It was so hard for him that he thinks it's written in hieroglyphs.
I said, It doesn't look like that for me.
It doesn't look like hieroglyphs.
I see brilliant logic there.
This is how the construct of dialectical Islamic jurisprudence makes you feel.
As we say in Palestine, "yamakhwil alʿaqla" (means eye-opening or mind-blowing)
This is the effect of the Ottoman state.
This is a big step of change in quality.
It didn't just alter the legal and Shari‘a apparatus in the empire,
but it made it a legal apparatus only and not adherent to Shari‘a.
Despite all the counterfeiting and confiscations
from Shari‘a in the personal status law.
Which has nothing to do with Islamic jurisprudence.
It was changed a lot.
They had something called a device of 'talfiq'.
Talfiq was one of the most important tools for modern reform.
It originally started in 1917 in the Ottoman Empire.
It was the Law of Family Rights of 1917
They even used Shia jurisprudence.
And they combined it with Maliki jurisprudence
a few from here and there.
And they say this is the new law.
Who decided that? On what basis?
Which jurist brought all of them together like that?
That's not important. What is important is what the state decides.
When you bring those together without explanation or refutation,
All of al-Fiqh has been refuted.
Every statement has a refutation.
And the refutation alone can tell a world about the art of thinking.
when you read for Al-Nawawi.
And you see how he objected to al-Shafii.
Even though you are al-Shafi'i,
and while your result is correct, the method of refutation is wrong.
Or maybe it's lacking or incomplete.
He writes all about it.
About why did al-Shafi'i not complete this exercise in Fiqh
that produced the result or statement in question?
Imagine that.
This is all gone now.
No more refutations or anything else.
That the woman is entitled to such-and-such in the contract of such-and-such.
This is because we said so.
OK, where is the logical structure of it?
It doesn't matter.
No more diligence, weighting, authentication, or anything like that.
This is what the state decreed.
That's why you said that the 19th century
was a pivotal century in the history of Shari‘a.
In the late 19th and early 20th centuries,
the Ottoman Empire became a modern state.
It wasn't an Islamic state.
When I said it was a modern state, it wasn't meant as a complement.
At the same time, I don't mean modern state as in the temporal sense.
Modern means an expression of modernity, which is a special qualitative phenomenon.
Therefore, there is a big difference between the so-called Islamic rule,
and the so-called modern state.
This is the subject of the book The Impossible State.
And you see that there cannot be a modern Islamic state.
If you mean by modern, the European modernist composition
because the modern state is a European state.
Even in China today,
which is the most creative state
in creating political and social fields
from nothing at the beginning
and later from internal data that is unique to China,
will not escape the compositions of the modern state.
Since we are at modernity
or the modern state,
I want to talk about the concept of modernity.
You said: The solution to the problem of modernity
is to understand how everything is related to everything else.
- Because everything is interconnected.
- (Correct.)
Could you elaborate?
Let me ask you this question:
What is one of the most important ways to rule
a land that has different tribes?
When the English went to America,
what was their most important weapon to control the land?
They allied with some tribes
who they tempt with something
to help them wage war against their other sister tribes.
It's called the divide and conquer strategy.
Dividing something is one of the most effective means of control.
If you face 20 people at once,
the example is very clear but this is only to show its importance,
you'll lose to them.
If you isolated them and took them one by one,
and you are strong enough, you'll finish them all.
Modernity
Its main goal started, continued and still continues
according to the logic of control.
The control of everything.
And the most important thing is to control nature.
However, since man is a part of nature,
it becomes about man's dominance over man.
As I said in 'Restating Orientalism',
Europe colonized itself before it colonized the world.
How?
It entered into a European self-transformation project.
From a religious self
and of course, Europe had more problems than anywhere else in the world,
because Christianity in Europe was rotten.
It was corrupt and cruel.
It wasn't a true religion.
Religion must be tolerant and compassionate
Christianity in Europe was very violent.
I don't blame Europeans
for wanting to get out of
the Christian era and the Caesarean era.
The absolute Monarchy era.
The absolutism
Because they suffered a lot.
I have no objection
Because European Christianity has no legitimacy.
It shouldn't have been established from the beginning.
I'm not saying that about Christianity in general
but only European Christianity.
I know very well
how Christianity is practiced in the Arab states.
Christianity in Islamic states are different
than Christianity in Europe.
There is a completely different subjectivity.
The European has brought ancient European traditions and customs
to Christianity in Europe and ruined it.
However, we can't say the same about the Christians in the Islamic world.
Because Christians in the Islamic world absorbed Islamic values as well.
So they had a different view of religion.
Despite being the same religion, Christianity in the Islamic world
is closer to the view of existence held by Islam than Christianity in Europe.
Few people understand that.
Because generalization is easy.
It's easier to think that Christians everywhere are the same.
But which Christians?
They wanted a way out.
They tried and then succeeded in getting out of it.
They fell into the same troubles that they left.
Catholic-Christian blackmail and atrocities in Europe have become secularized
and they entered into the state sphere
and it practiced the same persecution against the citizens as Christianity did before.
Carl Schmitt, the famous German philosopher,
despite his Nazi affiliation, his ideas and his brain were very brilliant.
He said that every important political concept in modernity today
is a concept converted from Catholicism to secular language.
For example,
in Christianity, God was the supreme ruler.
They replaced 'God' with 'State'.
God was God himself, and then man became God.
He ruled in the name of God in the beginning,
but later he doesn't rule in the name of God;
Rather, he says that he is the last reference in the judgment.
Which human do you refer to here?
Here we get into another issue
How do people colonize themselves?
For example,
One of the most famous beliefs or philosophies
in Marx's philosophical system,
the famous philosopher
regardless of how you interpret them
But Marx is a respectable philosopher, like other philosophers.
They have opinions that suit you and others that don't.
You take what you want and leave the rest.
As long as you don't fall into contradictions, this is the main condition.
Marx says:
In every society, there must be people
who control others.
He defined control through materialism.
The one who is wealthy
is the one who can control the social and political apparatus.
And he becomes the leader.
The biggest proof of it is what is happening in the United States.
It is meant to represent the pinnacle of democracy worldwide.
They have two parties
that are mostly alike.
They disagree on things that are trivial to the other world.
like their disagreement on abortion, as if it's the most important thing in the world.
Because their political system is unitary.
- (What do you mean?)
- The two parties are alike.
It's like deciding between twins.
I see it as quite the opposite.
What are the similarities?
They disagree on things that are not considered central issues in other states.
Other states have much bigger problems.
But the controversy and important thing that I am trying to point to
that in America,
this is regarding Marx's ideas
Who rules in America?
One of the two parties that look alike each other a lot
And who decides which party representative enters the elections?
It's about who has more money.
It's from AIPAC and the corporations.
That's why Israel has a lot of support from the White House because it controls AIPAC
All U.S. policy is based on a major and overwhelming dependency
on political power and economic power
The one with the money and the political weapons.
How did this influence the people's decision to colonize themselves?
There is a class of people,
and you'll never find a regular person in America
who has become the president of America
against the wishes of the corporations.
A person who had no help but were voted based on being
accurate, correct, and faithful to the aspirations and hopes of the American people.
That hasn't happened yet.
The more time passes, the worse the situation becomes.
This is proof of what Marx said.
You have a class that uses the law to change the people
that a part of them becomes the ruler later, and this circle continues to rotate.
You said that from 1950 to 1970,
The human was shaped as modernist subject
psychologically, cognitively, mentally, and spiritually.
I want to know more about the person before 1950.
This depends on time
but there were a lot of things in common.
Even in Europe,
humans before the 17th century in Europe
and before the 18th and 19th centuries around the world, depending on the place.
The human was related to his raising, origination, and self-formation
and who he is.
The question is, who are you as a human?
It had to do with moral values.
However, what happened in Europe after the 17th century
had an effect on the whole world later on
and now we are at a critical stage
where even the non-European peoples
the peoples in China, Japan, Africa and Asia
Because of social media
and Globalization
There became a kind of uniformity in self-composition.
If you go and visit Jakarta,
and I've been visiting Jakarta for the last 30 years
and have been watching it very closely to see the different changes.
My first time there was in 1992
and I compare it to Jakarta of today
They have almost nothing to do with each other.
There were only two malls in Jakarta.
Mujamae tijari in Arabic
There were two of them.
One was smaller than the other.
People buy there and leave.
15 years later
There are about 20 malls
Each one is as big as a city.
The young generation
between 13 and 19, live in them.
They stay from morning to night.
Then came social media.
All that matters to people today
is not the development of the Self from the inside
but only from the outside
There's no care about the inside.
There are no techniques
the techniques that a person applies to himself
to form a morally subjective personality.
This shows the importance of Sufism to Shari‘a.
It cared a lot more about the interior than Shari‘a.
The Shari‘a did care about it
but it wasn't enough
So Sufism got in
Today, Who is the perfect young man?
He is the one who exercises his muscles
with the latest hair style
and he wears his tight fit
or slim fit
There is no interest in the interior at all.
Never.
He lives between the restaurant and the parties
and most likely drinks alcohol
and visits to the beaches, etc.
I have no objections to any of this at all.
You go to the beach and wear what you want, as much as you want.
Nothing is wrong with that.
But this should be part of a substantial balance
that start by taking care of the interior.
This is why Foucault, famous French philosopher.
people misunderstood him
he spent his life in studying
What factors and conditions produce different subjectives?
He studied the modern prison
and how it produces a certain subjective.
He spent most of his life studying
the Greek and Roman histories
in how the Roman emperors
cared about the development of humans from the inside.
He called it Technologies of the Self.
The Technologies of the Self are not about what is enforced on you from outside.
It's your choice.
You yourself choose to do prayer, fast, etc,
to remain quiet and not philosophize a lot
and talk like I'm the only person in the room.
These are the values that make the Self.
Technologies of the Self
His question was
This has stopped in the 18th century,
completely,
'It had eroded', to quote him
I'm translating it from French.
It faded away.
Now we don't know it.
With passing of time
It's fading more and more, to the point that it looks like a mysterious story.
However, with Technologies of the Self
that the Muslims have practiced
and others like the Greeks, Indians and Chinese,
we have to go back now to the first minutes of this interview
There is a type of freedom
which we do not know today and have completely forgotten it.
Did it affect humans today?
Of course.
Because it created a human being who knows no meaning of freedom
except economic freedom
and political freedom.
Political freedom here is in brackets because it is not complete freedom.
To go voting
is not the whole story
who are you voting for, Donald Trump?
He is the result of American economic violence and fraud
etc
then he becomes President of America
I exercised my right to vote
But to what end?
Despite that, and I think you are aware of it,
but we can see the emergence of the idea of meditation
The Buddhism
Inside America and not just the world
(and Sufism)
In New York, we have a center of Sufism.
It has nothing to do with Islam, hasn't it?
Completely.
The spiritual presence
is present around the world.
I'm very happy that you mentioned it.
This is very problematic.
As we used to say in the east.
It's full of problems.
Let's take Medicine.
As a representative measurement
You have two ways to deal with the body.
The physical body only.
Let's forget about the soul for a while.
There is the Western way.
Which is about eating and drinking whatever you want.
And all the industries that the large food corporations manufacture.
They want to sell it to you.
You are a mere economic tool for them.
You work and pay.
You keep this wheel spinning.
When you get sick, you go to the hospital, and the doctor cures you.
When you eat, your stomach acids increase.
They will give you medicine for that.
It will dampen the acids.
Now you'll even eat a lot more.
You've fixed the problem of increased acidity.
Now there is cancer in the large intestine.
You go back to the hospital.
Now, what exactly happened?
They sold you food, you ate it, and you paid for it.
They made you sick, and you went to the hospital to pay them again for treatment.
This is capitalist economic logic.
This is the logic of medicine today.
There is no care for
the self.
Take Chinese wisdom
It's the opposite of that.
Chinese wisdom is not about the wisdom of treatment
but the wisdom of prevention
The best solution to disease is to not get sick.
They advise you to eat and drink a variety of things.
All healthy and great for the body.
They also say to exercise.
And not the violent sports
only simple sports
Nothing dangerous about Karate
You don't need to buy equipment for it.
You can do wonders with your own body.
Now take what you have mentioned.
There is a big difference between prevention and treatment
treatment is called therapy in the West.
In my opinion, this book is one of the most important books in the 20th century
by Philip Rieff
It's called The triumph of the therapeutic.
Our civilization today
is about that if you got sick
and you have all the reasons to get sick psychologically and physically
And after you get sick, you go to see a psychiatrist.
You start Yoga
You become a member of the Sufi Center in New York
This is after everything have deteriorated
Now Sufism happens
Let's stay with Sufism because it's like yoga and the others.
when you go to the Sufi center here in New York
you'll do there as you do with yoga.
How to describe what is happening here?
You are sick
I hope you don't
You are sick so you go there
psychologically, physically, or both
You want a treatment through calm and tranquility
Self-reassurance
which he can get a little bit of from the Sufi center.
But when leave the center
and he leaves his house after he meditated
a meditation for 15-20 minutes
Now he'll face the outer world
which causes him troubles and distress every hour
and you go back home to do yoga.
This isn't part of
The return of these ancient religions to modernity
is a therapeutic return and not a prevention
While Sufism and yoga
and even the martial arts
Military sports, karate, judo and taekwondo
Now it's imported and used falsely
and they use it as a treatment
Because after working 10 hours in a bank or law firm
He will be bored that he wants to go out and do something else
So he goes at night to a club or a center
takes an hour of karate
He relives himself and be a little bit more happy at home
But it's not a solution
As you know in Kung Fu
It's part of a religious and philosophical practices are very deep until today
If you went to china,
to the Kung Fu centers in In the mountains
they are very few because they were eliminated by the Chinese government
But you can find them and see them.
You can watch them on YouTube.
Kung Fu is a section of religious practices.
The part of taking care of the body as a religious entity.
You are God's begotten.
And you take care of the body because you are the guardian.
And the caretaker.
The body is not yours.
This is a religious view.
It has a very great value that we have forgotten today.
The care of the inside
is a kind of worship
When we say that Sufism is worship
People will say what are you saying?
It's definitely a worship, it doesn't need an explanation.
Now why Sufism is a worship but when you add yoga it stopped being a worship?
It's became a healing to an illness now.
The strong person who has no need and has no problem with frustration and despair
He faces a lot of problems in life
but he is strong
He can take it
He lives a life in a way and he is happy in general
And knows how to isolate the bad from the good
He doesn't need these things.
Because he is developed in the inside an inner citadel
What Pierre Hadot,
who influenced Michel Foucault
Pierre called it The Inner Citadel
If you have an inner citadel
the yoga will be just a superficial thing for you.
What is this citadel?
It's the technologies of the Self that is based on morals.
When you are hungry and fasting, you fast as the Sufi.
Imagine the magnitude of your ability to control yourself.
Whoever doesn't control himself, doesn't control anything.
The first thing you do if you want to rule
and this is the Islamic logic for any ruler:
First rule yourself before you rule others.
AL-Ghazali and others when they all wrote,
like Al-Mawardi and Ibn Jama'ah,
the most important advice to the Sultan and the Caliph.
AL-Ghazali said: Do know that, O Sultan of the world
King of East and West
Allah have given bounties that is apparent and many
and in ten pages after that
what you do to express your gratitude to Allah, the Giver
This is the basis of the ruling.
Fasting is among them
The system of fasting
we do it in Ramadan
but its goal is bigger than how we understand it
Religious values in my opinion
Although practiced today, but after practicing it
its philosophical concept was weakened.
The old Muslim before one thousand years ago
when he fasts
by the same degree of education and awareness
his understanding of the philosophy of fasting in Ramadan
was bigger and deeper than what a Muslim have in the 21th century
Because the underlying philosophy which is the basis of
Technologies of the Self
is a lost Sufi techniques
and we don't know it today.
Ok, about the human
How does modernist person view the world today?
He sees it as a fun play area
The word used most among people is the word fun.
The important thing is that the one be happy
But we noticed
that the more happy they are
in a sense that the more money they have
and more cars
They make an income that no one have made like it in human history.
Today, young people in their thirties
in technology and computer industry
they make huge money
they become billionaires before they reach 35 years old
They have everything.
They bought houses and islands.
They built luxury homes on beautiful islands
They have all the possibilities
But they are ridden by despair and frustration,
and depression and sadness
More than any people in the history of mankind
The poor
is happier than the rich even today
But the poor in old history is a million times happier than the richest today
The law is the same, the more wealthy you are in modernity
The more desperate and sad you are.
(Wasn't it like that before modernism?)
Why is it like that?
-From the inside?
-(Yes)
Didn't they feel like that before?
They were not on the same average
I use the average because you always have exceptions
Maybe one in a thousand will be excluded from the rule that you are talking about
But when you look at what the wealthy Muslims did
The wealthy Muslims,
in every customary and ordinary
in the Islamic system
that states that money has to go around.
Who built the huge buildings in Islam
all the schools and mosques
the water wells for the roads and also the bridges
Who built them?
It's built by wealthy Muslims.
Sultans, ministers and pashas.
And the big merchants.
Every one who do good deeds
is an internal value.
Their deeds weren't just for show.
There were some who did it to get a higher place in society.
This a human nature.
Some pay it no mind.
They have Inner conviction
that the practices that originate from religion
insist on moral acts and deeds that are part of the religion
It was a way to personal salvation.
Most people in the West don't believe
and they don't have the motives.
Even if they believed and went to the church
they do very strange things honestly.
A CEO of a big corporation
goes to church with his family
and they do all their religious duties
and he might even pay a few hundreds of dollars to the poor.
But the next Monday
he will be sitting in his office in that big corporation
that extorts and steals people's money, and does very bad things.
Take Walmart as an example
or how do they treat their workers in Amazon
and how they make their food
How many people paid exorbitant prices just for the upper class in Amazon to be this rich.
This is because there is no religious motivations.
There have none of the techniques of the self
The inner self of the modernist human
is an empty inner self
When did morals got separated from man, state, and corporations?
It started in the 17th century in Europe.
Nothing starts at a certain point in history, and it starts from nothing.
Except Allah creation
"He says to it, 'Be' and it is". Yasin:82
But everything else
in the human phenomenon
in the 17th century,
there could a few general and unclear things that happened a little before it
I think that
it could be in the 16th or 15th
a few things that happened slowly
However, in the 17th century, its basic features appeared
Which are new concepts that have began in Europe.
There were big movements
in science and others.
What is called Mechanical Movements
The mechanical philosophers.
There are other philosophical movements
I don't know the Arabic term because it didn't exist in Arabic
It's Deism.
What do these movements say?
They say we're Christians
and we acknowledge the existence of God.
We didn't do anything wrong.
God created Earth.
We believe in Him.
Nothing is wrong with that.
However,
He created Earth
Made it work like a hand watch
and He gave man the freedom to control this watch.
And He left the scene.
According to mechanical philosophers
Allah created Earth and disappeared.
By the way
this is related to ancient Greek philosophy
that was objected by al-Ghazali, Ibn Taymiyyah, and all Muslims
Does Allah knows the particulars or not?
it's a problem,
and a very big issue that is philosophical, theological, and speculative
It started from the Greek era
It continued and the discussion increased about it in Islam
This is not only a philosophical question.
It's purely a political and legal question.
If Allah doesn't know the particulars
it means you can do whatever you want.
But if He knows the particulars
He will know if you even had a negative thought.
Before you even do the bad thing.
If you lust after a woman you shouldn't lust after,
it means Allah will know about it.
It will be written in your book, your record .
Until the Day of Judgment, when you will be held accountable for it.
Unless you did more good deeds then Allah forgive you.
The subject here is that God knows everything.
This has political significance.
Because it means that the law and Shari‘a
and every action that a human does
not only does it have a punishment on Earth,
it has a punishment in the Afterlife.
The person who grows and raised with only one punishment in life
if you escape it, there will be nothing after it
But if you couldn't escape it, you will be punished here only.
While in Islam
Allah watches everything
and He didn't lock the world door and leave
The person who committed something
will be punished today
and a lot more later.
This creates an obedient self
obedient personality
that may practice the moral system
which is Shari‘a in this case
even if no one holds you accountable for it here on earth
even f there were no police in front of you
whether your parents are there or not
Being observed or or not
It doesn't matter, there is a Higher observer
You have two personalities
two selves
completely different from each other just because of this theological assumption
Let us continue the story of Europe
When this movement took place
it was a transition from the Catholic church
to the middle stage, which is the mechanical
that recognizes God, but does not recognize His ability to manage human affairs.
In Christianity in Europe, God lost the power of legislation
and the power of accountability for the violations of laws and legislations.
These are two stages.
-This the 17th century
- The 17th and 18th century
After that, new movements began to say that we are not bound by religion at all.
God didn't just leave us
but all religious concepts are not for us
from this moment onward
We have to think about
that even if there was a religion
this religion has nothing to do with political matters and society.
This is the difference between Heresy
and Secularism.
Heresy is the lack of recognition in God. The disbelief.
You are saying that God does not exist.
While secularism
acknowledges the existence of God
Sunday morning you have to be at church
But Monday morning, you can go and commit any crimes you want.
This is the result of secularism
Because now there is no relation between religion as a moral system for Sunday
and the rest of the days in Christian
In Islam there is no such difference.
The Islamic way lasted 14 centuries
But today, some Muslims are doing almost like what Christians have been doing
They have some religious rituals
but they don't look at the effects of their worship when Monday morning comes
General responsibility towards society.
This is a moral responsibility.
There's no interest in anyone else,
except your main family,
unless it was without moral motives.
The more morals decay
the more you become irresponsible towards society
and its problems and to others.
As Taha Abdel Rahman said,
There is no human being without morals.
Morality is what makes a human being.
Any human being without morals is a machine
He is soulless and irresponsible, and he can commit any crime without knowing it.
In Europe
there was a separation between morals and everything else
David Hume, the famous Scottish philosopher,
He said there was complete segregation
between 'what is' and 'what ought to be'
The things about what is, are the existing things
and what ought to be are the ethics.
When I say this is a mountain. It's the truth.
It's in front of everybody
But what is the meaning of the mountain for you and me.
For you, this mountain is good that I can build houses investments on it
and build swimming pools
and hunting areas.
The other says, SubhanAllah, such a beauty.
Just looking at the mountain is a blessing for me.
I like to go visit and walk on it and come back.
I enjoy its fresh air.
These are two completely different people.
The first one is with 'what is'.
But the second is a man of morals.
Recognizes the beauty of the mountain, for the sake of the mountain itself
For the Creator of the mountain
For the relationship of the mountain to the humanity created by God.
And it doesn't prevent building on it.
To a certain extent.
Exploitation must be limited.
You can't go to every mountain and build 2000 houses
This destroys the Earth. This is what is happening now.
This should be well known.
Any beach
that had 3 or 4 story building
this changes the airway
and nature in that area completely
This is just because you built a tall building, without building factories or anything destructive
If God wanted tall buildings on the beach He would have created them.
God has no need for us to do it for Him.
Everything has a reason.
There are reasons for the many types of fish in the sea
Allah created everything with a reason.
He didn't create anything in vain.
We don't know that there is a moral system that connects everything to everything.
Playing with one of them, affects the rest.
Ethics isn't just about behaving well
and being nice to people
ethics are more than that
is knowing that you don't have to search too much in the secrets of the universe
because you won't understand it.
Science has its goals.
Science today is about control, and only control.
Its goals is how to live more than 200 years or even forever.
How can we clone ourselves.
Those who think this way
are the stupidest idiots.
I'll get back to that because it's important.
But I have two questions about what you said.
Is every human being today necessarily modern?
Or just some of them?
Modernity is a phenomenon that is constantly forming.
In the West for example,
The pinnacle of the modernist self
existed in the West in 1990.
The modernist self in the 1990,
before social media.
You connected 1990 with
As a section of the modernist phenomena is social media
There are many other things.
Subjectivity in modernity
It was on top in the West in 1990
So you find that this was the highest degree of modernity
Because the West are leaders in this thing, which is a problem.
But 25 years later
or 30 years later
More than 30 years since 1990.
You find that the modernist self has changed
The person before the social media was one thing, and after it  became another thing
Notice in behavior, in the gaze to the body and the human spirit
How do people dress? How young men and women wear things today?
What is the meaning of sex in all this? What is called sexual freedom
all have changed a lot.
Even in the last 10 years.
These are not only changes
I also say that these changes are at the heart of modernist self-change.
The modernist person today in the West who is at the top of modernity
in 2023
Differs strongly
From the same generation that reached this stage in 1990 only
Imagine how 1950, 1930, or 1880 would be.
All of modernity is evolving.
For that we can't say that everyone reaches the same degree of modernity in the world at the same stage.
But everyone got into the modernity
To varying degrees
Social media has made this difference less in the world
In the villages of China and India.
maybe they have it a little less.
Because they have phones and they see all that is happening in the world
But they don't have the means to program themselves or to sculpt themselves
to be able to form their subjectivity
to be like someone from their generation with the same interests, in New York, Toronto, or Paris.
It differs.
But mentally at least they entered modernity, even in the village
There is no village in the world today that I know of
unless it's not on the world map
or that they don't have smart phones.
But if you have an iPhone then you're a modernist.
Is the antithesis of modernity or modernist man,
the underdeveloped person who doesn't have technology?
Because you connected it with technology.
As we stand today at this crossroads,
the antithesis of modernism is one of the most positive things we can find.
Even if he thinks he's backward, the backward is better than modernist today.
Why?
Because we are in a very big dilemma.
In 30 years, we will destroy ourselves environmentally.
In terms of weather and floods.
If we don't take serious steps in these 30 years
to improve the situation
All of Bangladesh and a section of India,
and large islands of the world and Netherlands will go under the sea
Today, every year, 100,000 people between the ages of 15 and 30 commit suicide
more than last year.
So I ask my students
How many young man and woman
Between 15-30 is still young, correct?
How many young people from around the world commit suicide yearly?
No one of my students knows.
They have no reason to commit suicide, the best of life are in front of them.
1,200,000 young people commit suicide every year in the world.
I want you to put 1,200,000 people
In a big square.
And look at how many they are wan; These people commit suicide each year.
Not to mention illness.
- This is only from the young people?
- (Yes.)
Mental illnesses
As far as I can say, the world is entering a new phase
and with social media
And how we entered the technological age and the computer age
and a lot more.
We have entered the age of madness.
Madness?
Now, mental illnesses are attacking the world in significant numbers
So much so that the whole young generation
who did not know
Because they were formed before
Like me, I was in a family that was very strong
I have seven or six aunts
and my mother and two grandmothers
and uncles from both sides
They all loved me, and they all took me as their son.
Today, visualize how different things are
Today at Columbia University, where I teach.
One out of four
students with a higher degree after a bachelor's degree.
suffers from serious mental illnesses.
How do I identify serious mental illnesses?
It has tendencies toward suicide
In Columbia University?
Yes, one out of five
The statistics are there; It's not a guess.
One-fifth of the undergrads suffer from the same problems.
In every class, on average, one student commits suicide in Colombia each year.
Sometimes two students.
For a university that has 30,00 person, that's way too much.
Too many in the world even for a young man or woman to commits suicide.
Mental illnesses overwhelm us more and more
Our young generation is the biggest victim.
And in my opinion, the little ones today, if they are really thinking right about the situation
They must start thinking in a way
Because they are the ones who are going to pay.
We were irresponsible
We left them a very miserable situation
They are the ones who will pay the price, and their children as well.
And they have the right to revolt against this situation.
I am saying revolution in the cultural sense
I don't call for violence, ever.
There must be a cultural revolution.
They should start asking big and important questions.
What is happening to us? Who are we?
We are not made in this Earth to wreak havoc.
If any people in all human history to destroy and corrupt Earth it is the modernists.
Don't take it from me
just use google and search for how many animal species disappear everyday.
Could you answer it?
I think it is a lot.
110 daily.
While the scientific average
for the disappearance of species in the world, according to scientists in general, is five in a year.
Let's say 50 a year
Now, every day we lose more than 100 species of animals in the world.
We destroyed everything we touched.
But if you use different lenses
yours are possibly pessimistic glasses
With the new lenses
It is true that there are new diseases like cancer,
depression or other mental illnesses
Or other diseases that have been discovered recently
but we fixed diseases that the ancient man was suffering from
So his life span is longer
The average human lifespan 100 years ago in the Arabian Peninsula was 50 years, now it is 70 years
It's increasing in America as well.
The average human lifespan in the world has increased.
This means his health is better.
Although new diseases appears, they discover solutions to them.
This is what I can say about diseases.
As for wars, we live in an era that has the least wars in human history.
Compare it with wealth and poverty.
- Poverty rate are down.
- (Could we take them one at a time?)
- Poverty is less today than it was in history.
- (True)
You have positive factors brought about by modernity
We don't have to focus on the negatives.
Mine is not a negative view.
My outlook is more positive than the ones you defend.
Because there is a bad interpretation of the positive outlook
Sometimes the negative view is the one that believes more in the positives
A positive outlook can be accused of carelessness and irresponsibility
Everything is good and happy and doomsday will come while we keep saying it
My outlook is not negative at all
I don't considered negative.
and not as they say in English pessimistic and optimistic
Some people this is pessimistic.
My project is all about criticism.
My criticism is as positive as possible
Because I think we should reclaim the concept of responsibility.
When I criticize
To whom I criticize?
I could have retired a long time ago.
I don't need to work.
But I retire for what?
My work and my worshiping
my raison d'etre
of course I love my family so much
but my other raison d'etre
is that I have work and responsibilities to fulfill.
Why?
Like most people
when they reach their 30s or 40s, they have kids.
Although this phenomenon is fading.
But there are a lot of people who have kids.
These new generations, what kind of world we will leave to them?
If we are not going to make them aware that we have problems
And be positive and tell them not to worry, go and do what you are.
The clubs are there so start drinking and dancing
Do whatever you like; Life is beautiful.
Buy whatever you want and throw out what you don't want
And consume half of what you buy; It doesn't matter because life is sweet.
This is a catastrophe.
But if you listen well to what I say
and to the essence of my words
What I'm trying to say is that we have to be careful.
You can enjoy life
I'm not an ascetic
I have a life, and I enjoy it responsibly.
The first thing in my daily life, I practice criticism.
Because people must understand and be aware about what they do.
My students say:
After we took your courses, our lives changed.
We don't have 'fun' as we used to.
When they buy a Coca-Cola bottle and drink it and throw it away.
Every student takes my class, almost never do it that way again.
And if he does, he will have remorse.
This is from what he heard about the effect this simple action.
A simple act, you go and buy a Coca-Cola bottle and pay two dollars and leave.
You drink it and you leave it.
Nothing is wrong with that.
This act is haram.
In the Shari‘a of modernity it must be forbidden.
But since modernity has no morality, it doesn't have Shari‘a.
You raised some points
I don't want to be accused of avoiding what you said.
Like the issue of medicine and longevity.
In medicine, as I mentioned a little while ago
The goal of medicine
But whenever someone does something, there will be side affects.
The side effects of medicine is that we live more.
This is what we focus on, and we applaud it; We become sick and we seek treatment
What is better than this.
We thank God for the medical apparatus
Of course we thank Him for it
We overlooked the genealogy of this phenomenon
The metaphorical use of genealogy here is to ask: Why are we in the hospital?
Because our old diseases that are before modernity
very few and Almost non-existent.
Most of the diseases that we suffer from today are modernist diseases
When we say that 1 out of 4 people must suffer from cancer in his life.
This is the average
1 out of 4 also have to suffer from heart disease, and die from it.
Cancer and heart diseases and many others
Where did they come from?
From our way of today's life.
From Food or from pollution
or the pressures on us
Because anger and sadness generate diseases
All the factors that exist in our modernity
in our ordinary life
they generates 80%-90% of diseases.
When the medical apparatus say
and you have to visualize here
that the medical apparatus is talking to big corporations
The medical apparatus says to them
Give us money
and we'll develop our medicine
so we can cure people
and people can keep consuming your food
They is an alliance
between hospitals and medical staff in every state
especially in the United States
With large corporations.
Hospitals, by the way, have become companies.
Before, doctors practice medicine through their own clinics.
Every doctor, even two or more doctors, establish their private clinic.
But now hospitals are buying these doctors.
They get them into their line of work and pay them a salary.
The salary is like the money you pay to enslave another.
The doctors today
are corporate slaves.
They were independent.
They were working with their dignity intact.
Now they are just workers in large corporations.
And they exploited them.
These corporations are the same
Every company has a special interest
to cooperate with the other companies
Just like wolves.
The wolves get together to hunt the bigger prey.
The corporations do the same as wolves do, because they from the same kind.
The corporation will not do good to me as a person
a person who call for ethics
They'll accuse me of sabotaging their work
You are the enemy
The best way to change the regime
culturally
we start by boycotting companies
If you boycotting companies
The less they produce and the less they use the land
Let's say the red meat, or beef
It's well established that it causes cancer
No need for me to confirm it more
Cows eat fodder
And fodder is grown in large vast lands
Whole forests are mowed and destroyed in order to grow fodder for cows.
Who does that? The corporations.
When they do things like this
and I only eat one-fifth of what I used to eat from beef.
That's enough.
We consume more than what we need.
It causes obesity
America has the frightening problem of obesity.
And other states, like England
and the Gulf states
It's common now.
If you buy less beef
The companies will not find a market
They will reduce their production
There we'll be less exploitation of the land
less destruction to forests
When the corporation shrink
In that time we can accept smaller companies.
that meet our needs
But those giant corporations have occupied the world
Don't you see that the modernity or its tools
create these new corporations
And the movements that help
with this new culture you seek
and recycling is increasing
I mean the culture of recycling
People are eating less processed food whether red meat or others
and less use of plastics
There is a big movement that is seen
to lessen and improve
and they belong to the tools of modernity.
What you said is true.
(Isn't it fixing itself?)
Without morals.
But not according to the time speed of today.
What we do is very little.
It should be a lot more.
But you have to look at these Improvements
A lot of these improvements are part of the same logic
That generated the problem from the beginning.
When we say stop using oil
Let's find other sources, like the air
We create a multi-million dollar company
and build it
But my motives are to exploit with the same capitalist logic.
The point where we don't make money from green technology,
It stops.
Definitely.
We go back to what we said about the origin of computer
it came from war and violence
Let's start over and attack it from another angle
You can't solve a problem
through a solution produced from the same logic that produced the problem.
This is rule number one.
Impossible.
Modernity proved this law
We didn't know this law, by the way, in human history
until the past two centuries and what happened in them.
This is the logic of modernity.
It tries to create a solution
from the inside
Let's get back to the acids in our body
What should the solution for the acids in the body be?
You modify your way of life.
You do a kind of exercise.
You eat differently.
It is impossible for modernity and the logic of capitalism to say that.
This is self-destruction for them.
What they do is give you pantoprazole.
Pantoprazole is very well known drug and produced in millions.
You take it to to reduce the problem.
But it wreaks havoc in the body.
After a few years it causes cancer in the body.
Pantoprazole is the modernist solution to a modernist problem.
We got rid of the heartburn
But we gave him cancer
At least leave me with the heartburn
I will give pantoprazole to cause you cancer
then you go to hospital to pay $450,000 for the operation
And these are true cases.
If I went to the movement
Abdel Wahab El-Messiri
will call it speeding up the movement
which make it within the modernist system
This is true.
I won't evade it whether from here or from there
We're in a predicament.
We have to understand that we are in dilemma.
Both of our generations
we're getting older
although you're still young
but you have children
others have children
and they are innocents
They don't deserve what we do to them.
Back to the points we've discussed
You refer to morals as Taha Abdurrahman did
Are morals equal to religion necessarily?
He spent his life in this discussion.
Honestly, for me, this is not an important question.
It's important for him though.
Because of his own circumstances.
This is what I concluded from what you said earlier.
For example, in the 17th century
they separated it from religion
morality has necessarily been displaced.
You placed the 17th century as pivotal where morality
displaced religion
This depends on what do you mean by religion.
The problem is that when you say religion today
In English it's called religion (in Arabic: diin) as Islamic religion
For Muslims, diin is something
and for Christian Europeans, or non-Christian Europeans in general
religion is something different for them
When you asked about the relation between religion and morals
First what do you mean by religion?
If you think that religion must always be heavenly in the Islamic sense,
but I'd say, not necessarily.
Religions like Buddhism and Hinduism
They can create moral attributes
In my personal opinion
I think Islam is the one where it succeeded the most in this project
in my personal opinion
But I don't want to say that all the others have failed.
So it is possible that you have a religion in the sense that I can define
You stretch religion to a certain point
but not all the way
or there will things that are not religious
According to my concept
If you extend religion as far as possible.
There will be a direct relationship between morality and religion
It's hard to do with a solid moral system
and with a coherent and logical moral system
and a moral system that can form the human self
effectively at the individual level and at the social level.
If it is not linked to cosmological and metaphysical movement?
We are a part of the universe
And if we pretended that we live here
and God exists or not,
God forbid,
these are worthless superstitions.
As long as we know that we exist
as it surprised me when I learned, 20 years ago,
that we are made of the same materials
that made the rocks that fell from the spaces
the meteorites.
They analyze the metals in meteorites
and approximately 98, 99% of its minerals are present in the human body
And it came from space.
Just knowing that and that we're on a very small planet
between billions and billions of planets
which we don't know where they begin or end
and we can't know anything about them except the two or three around us
and we don't even know enough about them.
What is this universe? There must be something.
We are not here in vain.
Everything is interconnected with each other.
We're cousins to the monkey
and monkeys are the cousins of the next animal.
The elephant relates to the giraffe,
We are all from the earth, and to the earth we return.
All of this is religion.
Small minds think religion
is about a God with a beard
even Christians think that
A God with a beard, trying experiments
God is everywhere
In mountains and trees, in animals and man
In the light, in the wind, in the fire
He is everywhere
We are one. We are all one.
When I say we, it means all of us with our soil, our mountains, our planets.
With our animals, our brothers on Earth
I want to know a few things.
Today, with modernity, many concepts have become
We take them as postulates
that they are the concept
At the beginning of our talk, you mentioned freedom
Was freedom present in the Islamic heritage?
Of course.
I mentioned that freedom is not one kind
but different kinds.
We know about another type
which is has the same strength and merit
it even has a lot more merits than the freedom we know today.
Today's freedom is the freedom to act unhindered
by the state or others
If I wanted to smoke, I'll smoke, and if I don't want to smoke, I won't smoke.
No one can impose his will on me.
But think about it
You don't have the freedom to say, I don't want this law, I want a another one.
Today's freedom does not mean comprehensive freedom.
It's a freedom Isaiah Berlin called
negative liberty.
It is the freedom to act without obstacles that undermine your rights as a citizen
These liberties are made in the first place
while it appear to be political liberties
But they are basically made to be material economic liberties.
The primary goal of the state is always the economy.
Economy brings in money
Money create soldiers and armies
and power and a lot more
like a spinning wheel
There is a frightening cooperation between capitalism and the state.
Capitalism and the state are the two biggest projects undertaken by modernity.
They are the two main central domains in modernist life.
We said that in Islam,
the two central domains are Shari'a and Sufism.
Today, the two central domains are the state and the and the material world.
including corporations and capitalism
Materialism is bigger than capitalism
Capitalism is not only a practice
but a philosophy
and philosophy of life
All of this is called
buying whatever you want or not, which is mainly economical.
But if you come to many other things,
the state controls you and owns you in the first place, literally.
Today, for example,
When the state tells you to go to the army to fight in Vietnam or Afghanistan
In America you are forced to go, and if you don't, you will be punished.
And no one else can control this decision.
Take Islam
when there was a call for Jihad
some decided not to go,
but even those who decided to go
if he is young and his parents refused, he can't go.
If he is in debt
and if the owner of the debt doesn't allow him to go, he can't go.
Can you see the difference between the Islamic model of governance and the today's state?
This liberty we have
It's found in very large areas
but it is held in other respects, and they call it liberty.
But the liberty that I am talking about
is the one Isaiah Berlin named it without knowing what it is exactly
because he doesn't have a clear idea about it.
But Foucault knows a lot about it
Foucault is the only philosopher in modernity who knows more about it than anyone else.
He wrote about it in about 15 books.
It's described as 'freedom from'
And not 'freedom to'
The first one, the negative liberty
is about the ''freedom to''
I'm free to do what I want.
free to buy what I want within the law.
However, the 'freedom from'
is if I've reached contentment within myself
and happiness and joy
and even to Sufism excitement
without buying a new car
or eating that big slice of pure meat
Because I'm self-convinced without the need for the materials
This is the true freedom.
I am 'free from'
Why do we call it in Arabic hur (free)
that you freed it from
When you free a slice of meat
from the body of an animal
to free it or to free the rip
it means you have cut it
Freeing (tahrir in Arabic) is about finding the limits of something
and you take it and you say, This is it.
It is like editing (also tahrir in Arabic) books. It's the same principle.
Freedom is to be free from within.
Without needing anything
And when all your feelings and all your being depend on the fact
that you will not be perfect unless you buy a Mercedes car
then you have became a slave to it.
The first one, the 'freedom from' is an enslavement freedom.
And the 'freedom to' is the pure freedom.
No one will be able to break you.
It might be the other way around
The 'freedom from' is the pure freedom.
Yes, the 'freedom from' is the pure freedom.
I can be a perfect human being within me.
Strong
I have that strong inner citadel that we talked about.
A powerful citadel inside me that suffices me
without the need to live in a luxury house
or to owe money until Judgment Day
just to be able to buy a luxury car to show my neighbors and friends
This is slavery
And as many people have written,
especially about debt and what is debt, etc.
They said that today
we are slaves to capitalism even if we think that we are free.
I want to take on other concepts.
Equality for instance.
What was this concept like before modernity?
Was it present?
All of these concepts
We have equality, injustice, and justice. These ideas are popular today.
Did they have a presence before modernity?
Every society has a way of creating the necessary conditions
to continue in life.
Sometimes they suffer from some crises.
All societies.
The have their ups and downs.
In these frameworks
society always has the means to enable
this things to spin around this wheel.
Equality is a way to solve some problems
so that society can continue its normal life.
We can't say
that our circumstances
because it requires some kind of equality
it must exist in any other society
and we ask, Did they have equality or not?
This question in itself is problematic.
But was this dilemma present?
There weren't problems of that kind.
Because Shari'a, before the 19th century,
had organized life
and because of its importance to society
and its holiness
society accepted the provisions of Sharia almost as a second nature to them.
Equality was not important to them in the sense that we interpret it.
What is the meaning of equality?
Let's say between male and female.
As in the male and female are equal and have equal rights.
But what does this mean?
It means the female can work.
And since she works the children will be at home
and another person will take care of them
What are the problems facing the children?
Where is the father?
Is he present in the children's life or not?
Because he also has equality.
If the female can go anywhere, he can as well.
Ho about the children? The family?
etc.
Why do I use this situation specifically?
Because why the female has a right to work?
Because we are a capitalist society that measures everything with money
When the woman becomes equal to the man
she must do exactly what he used to do to be equal.
If the man makes $100,000
the woman must make about same.
It became a material equality.
But are men and women the same thing?
The woman gives birth to the children and the man doesn't.
When the children come, it's their responsibility.
She has a little more even.
It's not that she is forced to do it.
But it's how nature works, because man can't breastfeeds his children.
I'd love to do it for her if I could, but I can't.
The mother is the only person who can breastfeeds her children.
These are nature laws we cannot ignore.
It enters into the problematic situation of equality.
In my opinion, the Western woman, and the woman in general
the more they are liberated, the more they are enslaved.
Let's take a simple example
Women are freed to go to the market and to work and bring money.
Just like her husband, and sometimes more.
She comes back home to cook
because her husband is relaxing in front of football match
and maybe he drinks as well
While she worked all day
and comes home to more work, surrounded by her kids yelling "mom, mom"
few kids call their dad
there are examples but not most
She cooks and she does more
Few men today who are equal to their wives in house work.
Who is paying the bigger price?
The woman.
I don't mean that women shouldn't work.
But you have many other considerations on the issue of equality.
Muslims have figured it out.
Everyone is assigned to a role.
As al-Mawardi said,
Every gathering is a collaboration.
And everyone has his own importance.
If you are housewife
and someone says this is demeaning
compared to who bring half a million dollar to the house
this person is either blind to the truth
or very stupid.
Motherhood, in my opinion,
and of course woman must be educated
but when she is faced with motherhood,
in a period of her life
In my opinion, she should be appreciated more than a man who brings a million dollar home.
However, this doesn't exist.
Because when a mother have babies
she doesn't benefit capitalism.
Capitalism do not reward her.
Few companies that give good rights
Things are gradually improving now, as it should.
I don't deny that.
But for more than a hundred years
women were enslaved because they wanted them to work and have children too
without any..
A woman must be at home, and she must be paid a very high salary
because she is a mother.
Does this happen in capitalism?
No.
The law of capitalism is money.
There is no interest in
Everything else is respected in the end, because it brings more money.
If company gives donations to a museum or a charitable foundation
because it reduce taxes and they put their name
Rockefeller gives a lot of money, but why?
Because of the moral and spiritual conviction and the theological?
No.
It gives him a big name
people idolize him and love him more
and this brings in more money.
It's all about money.
Equality is fundamentally a matter of materialism.
There is not always a high regard for either men or women.
The modernist human being is a disgraced one.
Not to mention that he is empty within.
The modernist state in your thesis the Impossible State,
in summary, you say that any definition of a modern Islamic state
is intrinsically self-contradictory
And logically of course.
Excuse me, but
all the states are modern state
We live in a modern state, I pray, fast and pay zakat.
I practice all my Islamic practices.
Where is the contradiction?
I'd love for you to explain it more to me.
Modern state
It was established on the basis of separating morality from anything else.
I could stop here, and ask you to analyze this statement.
Correct, large and deep analysis.
And you'll find all the answers there.
Rather than getting into a long and wide maze.
Just from this statement.
The modern state is not interested in establishing
a moral self.
The moral self is the mayor of a responsible society.
You cannot produce a responsible society without a moral self.
Let me give you a small but important example.
We'll take it from the end, as we say in Palestine.
- Do you use this phrase in Saudi Arabia?
- Yes, we do.
We now know that the family is almost dissolved.
It was dismantled in the West.
And it's coming to us in every state.
In Saudi Arabia, Palestine, and Indonesia.
It's dismantling
Men refuse to marry more than woman.
They expect a lot of troubles and big problems.
He wants to be exempt me from it.
Women almost don't want it.
Both of them don't want kids.
The institution of marriage is completely dissolving.
But we ask why?
We should ask why?
Now let's go to the beginning in 1804
In 1804
The honorable professor Napoleon Bonaparte.
He made a law and called it Napoleonic Code.
Codified Napoleonic law.
It changed the world.
Because it was the first law codified in this way
It brings all the authorities and power of the state.
A section of this law
under many other laws
was for family.
The state started enacting laws to redesign the family.
When we say there is a legislation
of course on the first level and that it's almost naïve
The state legislated a law that is applied to all as a system.
This is a correct concept, but naïve.
The not naïve explanation
is to ask the question of
what is this law going to do to society?
If you see it from 1804 until this day
The laws of all states are laws to corrupt the family
this is not their goal
but its effects and consequences were the corruption of the family.
The dissolution of the family today is completely linked to the laws and the capitalist system.
Nothing else can explain them.
Capitalist and the state laws
This shows you that capitalism and the state work together.
The family broke up
because it's a small section of the big picture
which the state
decompose society and divide it into sections
The goal of the state is
always to eliminate large groups
which has its own internal rules and ethics.
Let me give you a simple example
If you look at the Middle Eastern states
not Saudi Arabia, but Egypt and Israel
Of course Israel has a colonial plan
But it has something to share with Egypt
Both want their Bedouins population to be in one concentrated area
and don't allow them to roam with their tents
but to give them homes to settle in it and with schools and whatnot.
Because Bedouins are tribes.
And tribes have devotion and respect for its own laws only.
They want to roam and keep their habits and customs and they are independent people.
Bedouins are free people.
The most free people on earth in the last century were the Bedouins of the world.
They live their lives as they will, but they face state opposition wherever they are.
The state wanted them settled, because it want to dismantle them.
It teaches them in its schools.
It gives them its laws of marriage.
Then it dismantle them to become single individuals that can be controled
by the state and capitalism.
This is the goal of the state.
Wait a second, I want to go back to what is said.
You asked me how the modern state can't be Islamic state?
You are thinking that as long as I can pray and fast, it means that I am a Muslim living in a modern state.
No, but modern countries are dismantling society under your feet.
Not you, but the generation of your children,
is going to face the same problems
there will be family, aunts, uncles, or love
from the big family
They will be alone and miserable in the world.
This is the fate of all.
Millions on millions proved this before us.
Are the dismantle of the family and the loss of all your relatives
and they became strangers to you, a part of Islam?
Islam mainly depends on the group.
There is no Islam without a group.
There is no good without the group.
The good deeds, cooperation, affection
love, and friendship in Islam isn't there without the group.
The state dismantles groups.
Maybe it's a bit slower in our states
but in the end this is where it's headed.
Is this because the state or globalization?
Globalization is one of the modernity sides
and the state and capitalism.
It's like the ball of football
shapes of octagonal stitched together.
Each one has its place by the others and has its own content
visualize it like that.
This is modernity.
You have globalization
The modern science, and this has its own story that we haven't touched today.
Science and its holiness
Companies, economy and banks
capitalism, and the state.
All of them together make this phenomenon.
Globalization is not different.
It's one side or a dynamic section of the sections we talked about.
When I talk about the state and capitalism, I'm talking about globalization at the same time.
Even though I didn't mention it.
It's like having a great Molokhia bowl
I'm not referring to the meat inside
but if you know how it was cooked, you'll know it's there.
It'll include the meat.
It's like the logical people say, it is included
If I said that she is a mother,
this means there are children, even if I didn't mention it.
Naturally.
This is the difficulty of education.
If I talked about the state, for instance,
how about this and that
What you do is to answer it from another door
Every phenomenon that has an explanation, is a city with seven gates.
One door shows you a section of the city.
To understand the explanation fully, you have to go through all the seven.
I always say that science is a mountain
and we are the scientists.
To understand what the mountain is
you have to go all around it
Because the mountain on one side can show you that it's high, but narrow.
but from another side it will look like it's 50 miles long.
It becomes completely different.
You have to go around it to understand it.
The modernist explanation can only be done by revolving around it and explaining all its sections.
Sorry but take into consideration my ability to comprehension
It could be awkward if we state some examples
but in the Arab world there are many Muslim states
even non-Arab state like Iran.
There are Islamic experiments
And if we say that the modern state is a European product.
At the beginning of the conversation we were also talking about
whether Omar Ibn Al-Khattab or other caliphs
Since he is a member of this world, he took what he took and left what he left
It is true that you said there are positions of strength and  weakness
But it doesn't prevent today that you as a modern state
and you take this system of modern state
And you take and plant all your values and morals in it
To be a moral Islamic state.
My dear.
The elephant can't climb trees.
This is the monkey and tiger job.
The saw can cut wood.
You can't use a saw to craft a diamond ring.
Each device has a function and has a way of working.
It has a goal.
It has a genealogy and background.
The state is not made in any way
to develop, educate, establish and support moral values.
Because if it did, it will cease to exist.
The state itself, as Nietzsche said
It's an immoral phenomenon.
Established on the ruins of a death of morality.
This animal died and gave the ground fertilizer
To grow a tree that has nothing to do with the animal.
On the remains of this animal.
The modern state
It can give you a small corner.
This is part of the definition of secularism.
Secularism says if you want to pray and fast
We will give you a corner to do them
But when you leave this corner, you can't say anything about religion.
Because you can't preach any values that oppose state values.
And when your value becomes a little bit popular and important
You will become a danger to state
The corner in the room will shrink and will be taken
Give me an example about America.
America claims to be a state of freedoms, and that it gives religions their freedoms
in expressing their feelings and rituals.
All these religious fields have
no influence on, or no rights in drafting republican political entity.
There is isolation between the private and the public.
Religion belongs to the privet.
The corner that no one can see you in it.
You go home and do whatever you want.
But we can't impose the religious morals of the state even for the majority
on the general political
Because it goes against the policy of the state.
It was created to isolate religion and morality from everything else.
It was originally created to solve a difficult problem in Europe
which is religious wars.
The state was a solution to religious wars.
Today you can't expect that the state to adopted,
The state takes the average of the populace
that has the ability to change the political system, and it works according to it
because if not, It's going to deteriorate.
But no state can practice morals
Because it will create a kind of politics,
in which morality becomes a source of problems like in Europe.
The church is the root of the problem
It is not modern Europe
The fundamental problem, in my opinion, is European Christianity
which is the origin of disasters.
It's the one who created modernity
Because modernity was an attempt to save Europe from miserable life it experienced
and the heinous injustice that it has lived in for centuries and centuries.
Can we say that this is the ability of man to develop and create a planet
or a better life
in that he could create new entities that do not necessarily have a religion
but it is able to gather people of different religions and backgrounds
to live together.
So he created an entity, like the state, and it became an independent entity
also you have companies, they also have limited liability.
And this contributed to getting us to where we are today
We discussed it if it was negative or positive
but we can agree on something
which is the technical and cognitive development that we have.
Every community can gather all its categories..
OK, take the Islamic rule
That Muslims were ruling minorities larger than them in number
OK, how did they gather them all while they managed to live better than today's minorities?
Today minorities are persecuted, I mean look at Muslims in Europe
Muslims in Europe suffer greatly in Germany and especially France
They cannot establish their own mosques.
Most Muslims in Europe pray in apartments.
And they talk about Islamic history, saying that there was a kind of restriction for building churches
I mean a very ugly hypocrite
The minorities today, not all of them
It is a very strange phenomenon, but it is not alone or unique
That you sometimes have minorities for example, in Indonesia
3% are Chinese, and by the way, they are usually Christians.
They own the natural resources of the state
But minorities in the West
Black minorities
Spanish, Japanese, Chinese or Korean minorities
During Corona, we can remember how many Asians have experienced violence in America
The Japanese as I mentioned to you in World War II
Look at what happened to them, completely innocents, they have nothing to do with war
And then they proved that they never had a relationship with the government of Japan in World War II
But they paid a high price.
Muslims in America, in New York, Arabs and Muslims are persecuted.
They wiretapped them.
I don't accept that minorities today are happy
and even if they were and they were in the ideal place for them
The first and last question for me that is related to almost every topic we discussed today
What is the price of this project?
Is the price the destruction of the earth?
Anything that destroys the boat or ship I am traveling on in the sea
I will not accept it, because it will end in my own mortality.
What we do is that we build and build again to make our leaders happy
and we make money and eat what we want.
and life is good.
The most important thing is that we ask the question, what is its price?
Why and what is the need for it?
Why do I need to eat 3 kilos of meat every day?
No one asks these questions.
hopefully people start to think a little bit more about what they are doing
And everyone asks this, Who am I from the inside?
What kind of human am I?
Am I a human being who deserves to be in the group of people who
love me? Do I do deserve their love and respect?
What can I do to repay this debt?
What can I do to be responsible to others?
and to life in general?
And the whole planet
All of this start from the inside.
Morality comes from the inside and not the outside.
You say that if you want to establish a true Islamic rule
consistent with the history of Islamic rule
we must give the political system a moral nature.
Do I get from this that there is a way to make the modern state
with the mechanism of Islamic rule.
There are two solutions.
We either end ourselves and we are done.
Maybe this is what we deserve.
Or we wake up and start changing things.
If we choose the second, modernity most be studied.
It is necessary that it is studied because it is a destructive project.
We must create from modernity
If we are smart and wise, because modernity is very smart and intelligent
but lacks wisdom
There is a vast difference between the smart and the wise
The smart can be a saboteur and a destructive.
And even mentally ill. It happens a lot.
But the wise cannot do bad deeds.
Even if he made a mistake he will fix himself to continue and get back on the straight path
This is the wise.
If we are wise we can get out of this issue.
This predicament can only be solved by education
e have to educate our kids
from the moment they open their eyes to the world
That there are values that they must adhere to.
But we need a system that can
gives us the necessary conditions, to raise these generations.
Don't ask me about how to do it
Because honestly, I tell you that I am tired of these things
Really?
But Taha Abdurrahman says it is possible to add
But it's very hard
I'm not giving up, but I'm very tired.
Even when people understand
They are not ready to do or give up anything
Even when they realize, they don't do anything
Let me be addicted to drugs, and I die an addicted and unaware. This is our behavior today.
Maybe there is no alternative
Is there an alternative to modernism?
There must be an alternative.
Europe was in unbelievable predicament, it's like they were in hell
until the 14th and 15th century
Then they entered modernity
The way the did it wasn't without effort
They worked and waited a lot to get in modernity.
Their attempt was, and without a doubt, was with good intentions
They wanted to fix their problems.
They wanted to survive so the worked for the better
I'll say this for them, they really tried
They failed miserably.
Even though they tried at the beginning
Imagine how long it took them to enter modernity
From an era where the church
was harsh, and their minds were sealed
as well as a lack of comprehension
They were living in a very violent and bad situation.
They entered the Age of Enlightenment
and they started developing things
They progressed beyond what was required.
Their science became colonial and killed people.
But at least initially
Ok, how did they get into it?
They worked for two or three centuries
before they could see the results of their work.
But they have changed a lot.
From certain aspects, they did change a lot.
How did they leave what was before modernity to be able to enter modernity?
We can escape modernity in the same way that we entered it.
Can we get out of it?
(Definitely)
Are Arabs and Muslims supposed to work on their own project?
Or are we supposed to work with the West on a new project for humanity?
We should do them together.
We must have our own project.
We should work on it independently.
We must work bravely and boldly.
Because situations today demand the greatest amount of courage.
Without boldness and courage, we can't do anything.
I mean cultural courage and scientific courage
We have to come up with our own method of thinking from the start.
We evoke some or all important Islamic concepts.
Which have been a positive factor in human history.
The Islamic experience in the world, in all aspects,
was a very positive experience
They have built a wonderful civilization,
full of ethics and sciences
without any contradiction
And other new things we don't know about
that contradict all concepts
For example, Islamic government systems
It was superior to many of what we see today
By the way,
I'm working right now on a long and complicated book
on this subject, the Islamic rule
It is almost a vast explanation of the third chapter of the Impossible State.
I mean it can reach up to 500, 600 pages, I don't know
Where are you at now?
I reached about 300 pages, but I'm still in the middle.
All these achievements were Islamic achievements.
We can't recall the whole past.
Because what is past, is forgotten.
But many things in Islam are not dead yet.
We can get it back
And we can build on it
We can combine it and mix it with things that are suitable for the era we live in
in order to get out of modernity.
We must get out of modernity if we want to survive.
If we continue with modernity and insist on it
I promise you a promise of honor as they say, that we will all be ruined
You'll see.
We are like that right now
Look at the natural and environmental degradation
and to the physical and mental as well
and to the family and the collective too.
In one of your interviews
I remember you said that
there are Indian or Chinese movements
or movements from Indian and Chinese
They are trying to restore their history.
In China
They have a concept, but it's in Chinese which I can't speak
But in English they call it circular history.
This is a very huge and important project
There's a third model, by the way.
There is a second and a third
You have the Chinese model which is the circular
You have the Western model
The one we all adopt today
It is the model that aspires to the future
And you have the Islamic model that aspires to the past.
These are the three models in viewing the human life that are very important
Because they form the philosophy that man must live according to it.
So let's take that the things that are close to us first
Because the Chinese model becomes part of these solutions
But if we look at the phenomena that are more suitable for us
Because we from the Islamic world but we talk about Islam and the West
Because it is the one that affected us the most
The Chinese model isn't much right now
It's going to be something
But so far it didn't.
You can see historical path
In China, for them it goes in a circle
You live and die
It's a matter of life being always in a circular motion In the universe.
What goes around must come around.
If things will come back to you, you won't do bad things because you don't want it back.
This is one of the principles
In the West
It is a Christian concept originally
As I told you, the big main concepts are Christian
The theory of progress
This is one of the biggest theories affecting modern human thinking and behavior
And not just in the West.
We believe that there is always progress
We destroyed everything but we still call it progress
Because we have a better car
and our computers are better, and this is progress
It is not important that we are going down in misery, despair, and sadness
and suicide
This is left on the side, because we are making progress
Its origin is Christian salvation
Our goal is the salvation
The criterion of ethics in the theory of progress
It is what we can achieve in the future, even though we know what will happen in the future.
These kind of expected contradictions
But when you look at Islam
In history, the highest point of it is creation and the message.
God's creation first, and the message of Muhammad, may God bless him and grant him peace.
At the top
After that comes the corruption of time
Whenever you are away from the prophet peace be upon him
the more time passes, the more corrupt time becomes
Some people find this difficult, and they think we want them in despair.
On the contrary, this is one of the most positive things
Because when we look at the era of the prophet and the prophet himself
with the top endoscope
he becomes the perfect human being, as the Sufis say
And if he is the perfect human being, what is our duty
We follow him and imitate him.
We imitate him but with knowledge and not with ignorance
We imitate him and try our best to be like him.
It becomes as follows: looking back becomes moral advancement.
This does not exist in the new theory of progress.
The new theory of progress is that we are progressing more and more
just according to certain criteria, but morality is not one of them.
Morality is not one of them.
Even when we say equality, this does not mean that it is morals
Equality is a political and economic equation, but not a moral equation.
The Chinese
Have brought their history.
As I invite the Muslims to recall their history
From the point of the historical composition as I told you
The Chinese are trying and doing the same thing
They want to know the Confucian
and to what the Chinese traditions invite
They want to recall it to give the modernist perspective or modernist reality
a kind of humanity and morals
Modernity is a complete opposition to humanity.
Modernity killed the human being.
We are not just meat and bones
hat is more important than that are the soul and the self
Self and soul, like the Sufis say
And the self is the door of the soul
It's the refinery that decides what goes in from bad and good.
And decides according to what you want
Hence the intervention of technologies of the self
Technologies of the self controls the self strainer.
Then it decides to refuse
According to the general concept, the self is like a bowl
When you fill a bowl of water and you put a drop
it overflow
This bowl is limited.
If you put good in it, evil will come out.
The more good you put in it the more evil come out.
But if you put bad in it, good will come out.
So you have to nurture yourself.
In many ways, including prayer and fasting, just as the Chinese and Indians have their own ways.
And Muslims have several ways, whether from Shari'a or Sufism
Because Sufi ways are somewhat different from the Shari'a ways and go beyond it.
Technologies of the self are too many.
But the important thing is that they produce the same result
Which is that the bowl of the self should filled with goodness.
And when it is filled, it becomes a cover for the soul.
It can be corrupted.
"Every human being is born with Fitrah (innate characteristics, Natural instinct)
It means he is a Muslim.
But what ruins him?
People who surround him and not good for him.
This means that the Self allowed itself
to let things come in and halt its Fitrah.
It's not that it corrupted the Fitrah, but disrupted it.
If the Self does good, it will be better.
The Self is everything we own that has value.
In it, we practice the technologies of the self.
- May Allah bless you.
- And to you too.
- Thank you very much
- You are most welcome.
Thank you all.
and to Ayman Al Hammadi, Fnjan producer
Thanks to Abdul Majeed Al-Attas in coloring
Mohamed Nour Shammat in editing
Behind the cameras, Adam Al-Sha'arani
From production, Aseel Ba farat
Noura Al-Subaie in social media content management.
Muhammad Al-Hasan in audio engineering
Managing Editor of Fnjan, Aseel Ba Abdullah
This is Fnjan, one of the products of thmanyah a Company for Publishing and Distribution
We publish all the productions with love from the city of Riyadh.
Next week, we meet.
I went to the the Met
Excuse me?
The Metropolitan Museum
When you find things that are not stolen
How do the West justify them if they are not theirs?
Listen
You find it all over England. It is clearly attributed to Muslims and many others.
You can find a section for Pharaonic monuments.
(A copy of the Quran)
The Western colonial view
is that the truth consists of a viewer and the viewed.
The viewer is the European which looks at the viewed.
And the viewed one is the museum
We are a museum for the European
Even in what we call
The aristocratic concerts in 19th century England
When they were the colonizers of India
They used to bring servants from Africa.
Of brown and black colors.
And from Chinese Asia
And make them serve food and dinner for the English around the table.
This is for looking at them as a revolving museum.
As if they were monkeys, bears, tigers, and giraffes that are there for us to watch.
Colonialism
Not only occupies land
But it creates from the indigenous citizen
The Idea of its museum
As Asians and Africans, we are museums of the West.
And museums are a modernist project, right?
(Of course)
Modernity is a problem.
Yes, a very difficult problem.